Hello and welcome to The Art of AI Sampling. This is a course that I've been super excited to make that dives into a lot of the techniques and philosophy around the burgeoning, cutting-edge world of AI-generated music. Now, there is a hell of a lot of opinions about this new technology that are warranted from all different angles, but I come from a perspective that is perhaps a little bit more balanced and nuanced in that I believe that the tools that are coming out that are supposedly going to burn the world down and steal all of the work from artists and stuff are really just very exciting opportunities and chances for us to do what we do as humans very well already, even better. So what I'm going to be teaching you in this course is, first, we're going to have a little foray into what I think is actually a very crucial part of making music, making art of any sort, whether it is using AI at all. which is just getting really clear on our artistic vision. I think knowing what it is that you want, knowing what it is that you're inspired by, and what it is that you're keen to create with your time here on Earth, I think is a really useful and often overlooked process in the journey of being an artiste, should we say. So, shortly I'm going to be walking you through a worksheet that I would like for you to complete that will then help us as we move forward with the rest of this course. Thank you so much for being here, and I'm absolutely thrilled that you are excited, or perhaps curious, about this very exciting new frontier in the world of music production. And I hope that this course teaches you everything that you need to know to go and create your own epic music utilizing these really mind-blowing tools. So, thank you so much for being here, and I shall see you in the next module.
