Alright, let's jump in to the wonderful world of Oudio, which just so happens to be my favourite AI music generator. Upon your first login you'll be presented with a screen that probably looks a little something like this, although as a precursor to almost everything I say in this course, like with all technology, but particularly in the AI space, things are always changing all the time, so use your best judgement if things appear a little different. In theory everything will stay the same by the time that you are doing this course. just spend the rest of the day listening to all of these trending tracks and things that other people have created and just leave it at that. However, if you are taking this course it's because you probably want to actually create something for yourself. But I will just note at a later date if you ever feel like you want to come and find some inspiration for prompts, it tends to be, at least in my opinion, the majority of the stuff on the homepage is pretty horrible. But every now and then you'll find something that has a really great prompt and to have a look at what the prompts are you could just Let's click on here for example and you can see that this person has done upbeat disco funk track and I guess this is in Japanese. I'm not particularly good at that but still the point is you can come in here and you can find all sorts of quote-unquote inspiration, brutal death metal and stuff. Okay but anyway beside the point we're going to go to the page where we will be spending the majority of our time in this course which is of course the create page. We're going to click on that and you're going to be presented with this wonderful view. Now Don't be alarmed if you don't have all of these folders and all of this absolute mess here. I'm actually going to be making a point ahead of all of this, which is that if you are new to Udio, please, please, I beg of you, from the start, be organized, because it became very difficult once I had hundreds, thousands of pieces of audio here that I neither like or do like, and they should have been categorized. So we're going to be looking at organizing that from the get-go, but for now, just to keep this simple, I'm actually just going to go into this course folder that, ta-da, makes it feel like we are in your position, which is that we have nothing. Okay, so obviously what we want to do with this platform is to create music, to create stems, or to create projects that we can create stems out of and to then make cool music with it. So how do we do this? Pretty self-explanatory. I'm sure if you're taking this course you've probably also played around with some form of text-to-media AI generator, whether that was like Mid Journey for images or Kling for text-to-video. The point is we need to take a piece of text and use that to infer a piece of music. So we're going to do our first generation as if we are totally new to all of this. We're going to go in here and we can see it even says in greyed out text. A rom-com between a volcano and an iceberg. Tropical House Chillwave. Okay, fair enough. I'm going to go proper lowest common denominator here and I'm going to show you first and foremost how the majority of people are probably using this platform. how we don't want to use this platform moving forward. But I think that this will serve as a very nice building block as we continue on. So what I'm going to do is just click this dice and that's going to give us some text. It's just created a random prompt, the emergence of plant life and orchestral arrangement. That's actually a pretty interesting prompt, I would say. But we're not going to touch anything else. We're just going to go with what it said. Obviously, we could have put our own prompt in, but for the sake of just really, really making this simple, we're going to click create. And straightaway what's going to happen is it's going to start working on creating two pieces of audio. If you've ever played around with Mid Journey, you know that you get four options up front, and then you pick which one it is that you want to upscale. It's similar to that in Udio, except we don't need to upscale. If anything, you could extend or make variations of, but it will always give you two pieces of audio to listen to up front. Now, another thing I want to say now, just so that it's clear as we move on through this course, is we're going to be generating a lot of things. I know that only "It took, I don't know, 10-15 seconds, but when I'm generating a bunch of things all at once, I do not want to sit here and waste your time." So right now you're listening to me in real time, but at a certain point I may actually do some little snips just to make sure that we're actually moving forward. You know, if I'm not talking about anything of any consequence in the process of it generating, then I'm probably going to cut myself out because I'll just be sat here pulling my nose hairs and such. So anyway, it's now gone on and created two pieces of audio for us: What a wonderful name. Okay, let's take a quick listen to what it is that we have got from this simple prompt in all auto, simple, lowest common denominator generation mode. Let's listen. It's very cinematic. I think if you showed this to somebody a year or definitely two, three years ago and said this was generated by AI, they would lose their fucking mind and probably have you committed to a mental asylum to cover up the fact that this is almost scary to think how good tech has become. But let's take a listen to the other one. Yeah, really, really pretty. And, you know, if we were to just leave it at that, if we were just here because we wanted to play around, get a bit of text, make music, you know, we could be perfectly happy leaving it as is, just using Oodio in this very simple way to just get a little piece of audio and that's that. Now, before we move on, I really want to hammer home the importance of organization. So, either what I would suggest is that you always have to do a little bit of audio. keep this whole your entire library free of anything that you don't like. So in that case this one... I don't like that. I don't want it. I would never use it. I don't want to listen to it again. I mean I don't dislike it. I think it's very cool but for my purpose it's not anything I would ever want to use. So I would then go ahead and delete it. Now there's a couple of ways to do things in this interface. One of them is here right click go down to delete. Another way is if you just click on it it will bring the view up down here and then you can click delete. What's cool about this is you can actually select multiple at once if you do command and click, maybe it's control on a PC, which allows you to delete both at the same time. So I'm going to go ahead and just delete that so we have nothing left. Cool. Let's now go back and see, okay, what else is there that we can adjust here? First and foremost, we have write your lyrics. Now this is a pretty crucial part of using Oudio because of course we don't just necessarily always want instrumentals. to have vocals. So with auto-generated here, if I were to go in and now say something like, um, I've got a couple of prompts here off the screen, I'm going to take soft, gentle R&B female vocalist, harmonies, backing vocals, Napalm. I love that artist. If you don't know her, she's fucking sick. I think she's actually the singer of Imagine Dragons. I may be completely wrong, but still, sounds amazing. I'm going to prompt this. Again, I'm not changing anything else. I'm keeping on auto-generated, and we're going to click create. We're going to see what happens. And I probably should have pointed this out with the previous generation as well. But something kind of interesting is happening behind the scenes, I suppose, to make it so that people who are coming to this platform who don't really want to get behind the scenes and start tinkering and getting advanced, they get good results all the time. That's not to say the fact that just, you know, the words that you put in can yield bad results if you don't know how to speak English or whatever. I just mean the fact that you'll notice that although my prompt, was soft, gentle, R&B, female vocalist. In that exact order, the prompts that we've got here are slightly different. So what's this? R&B, contemporary R&B, smooth soul. At no point did I say smooth soul. And also, if we were to go in and click on this track now, you can see that the actual prompt I gave was soft, gentle, R&B, female vocalist. Yep, we get the point. But it's gone and rewritten that prompt. So we're going to look at that in a second, but it's just important to note the fact that because we We haven't changed anything else. It's effectively looked at our prompt and gone, "Yeah, alright, okay, but I'm gonna do this instead." And so what it's ended up doing is rewriting that prompt. You can see here, female vocalist R&B, contemporary R&B. This other one, bittersweet, introspective, passionate, it's gone and it's rewritten that one as well. And also rather interestingly, as you can see that we now have lyrics. Why did we not have lyrics in the previous one, even though we were on auto-generate? Because classical music very rarely tends to have lyrics. So it's obviously also going to be inferred by the prompt, the style that you use. But in this case, it's gone ahead and said, okay, well, if the realm is female vocalist, R&B, neo-soul, whatever, bittersweet, take all of that and then make lyrics about it. So we've got, wrap me in softness, let your whispers flow in the calm evening where our feelings grow. Whatever. I'm going to go back now and show you that obviously the lyrics are different in both of these because the actual prompt itself is what triggered the lyric writing prompt. Quite cool, I think you'll agree. It's definitely yielding some very human results. Let's take a listen to the other one quickly. As the night unfolds, we are bold. I want to see you, babe. Take your time, my heart is open. In this moment, let love be spoken. Okay, very cool. I'm not going to continuously keep playing all of the generations for you, but I think in these early stages, it's very interesting to see how this very non-descriptive about the actual track lyrics, how this prompt has actually yielded some very cool and specific results. This is more of that kind of late 90s, early 2000s R&B. This one is a little bit more in that kind of Erykah Badu realm. But cool, I'm going to go ahead and... I'm not actually going to delete these because I quite like the sound of this. I'm going to get rid of this one though, so I can just right click and delete. That's another way of doing things. But I do just want to start making things organized from the get-go. So what I would recommend is that if you have various buckets, should we call it, of styles of things that you like to generate, create folders, even if it's not super granular and super specific, create the folders that then allow you to just, in the future, just neatly slot things in so that you can find them later on. So I'm going to create one here and I'm going to call this R and V. Create Folder. Great. And, super simple, I could just click if I had a bunch of these and then I I could do move to folder or you can just click and drag it in. Boom. There we go. So it may actually take a second you have to refresh in order to get that shit to work. Kind of irritating with the GUI but whatever. Dope. Okay now back to it. I want to take just a brief moment to suggest to you now that you pause this video and I want you to go over to the interface and I want you to just do a few generations just to see how the kind of language that you're using is is yielding results. So pause this video and I want you to go in, create maybe five different prompts, see what you get back, delete a few that you don't like, and if you do like them put them in some folders, and when you're done with that come back to the video. Cool! So I hope you had fun playing around with this most basic format of using Udio. Now I want to move on to some of the other simple controls here that we can see before we actually get really under the hood. So of course with this auto generated what we ended up having was even the soft gentle R&B female vocalist. When we did auto-generate we got lyrics about something, about anything, but there definitely were lyrics. And obviously we've put here female vocalist, harmonies, backing vocals, all of that kind of stuff. What if we wanted to use that prompt but make sure that there are no vocals? Well yes, you get five gold stars if you had thought, okay well why don't we just use the instrumental mode. So let's go ahead and now create something here which It explicitly asks for vocals, but we're doing it in the instrumental mode. Now, a pretty interesting thing about this is that if you were to use these words and format into instrumental or auto-generated, I do find that it tends to actually yield very musical sounds in the instrumental, even if they aren't lyrics. It tends to give that space of lyrics, I find, to something like a trumpet or a flute. and lyrical and vocally sound instrumentals. Let's take a listen to this. There we go. I was just adding off my screen I have a list of prompts that I tend to use for things and I just added as just a simple tag smooth soul that kind of like I don't know what what memory that brings me but it kind of like being picked up in my granddad's car and he would have smooth FM on in England and it would just be like that kind of music just the best. Let's take a listen to this as well. I mean this kind of stuff if you're sampling for hip hop or house. So anyway, you get the point. What's really nice is that there is that easy option to get things that are in the instrumental realm or auto-generated. So I want you to again pause this video and go and generate a couple two or three prompts using instrumental in a variety of styles. and just get a feel for what language inputs create, what kind of outputs. And when you're done with that, come back to this video and we will continue with the next step. Cool. I hope you enjoyed playing around with making instrumentals. I know that I find a lot of the time a lot of inspiration for starting a new track, just like in the instrumental realm, generating a few things and picking something that I'd like to then put into my project file, split up and then try and find vocals for on top. So once you're comfortable with the idea of instrumentals. We're going to move on now to custom. Now, I think this is one of the places where Udio really starts to shine. This is where you actually get to write lyrics. And not just lyrics and have the AI just willy-nilly do it how it wants. You're able to actually guide how it does those lyrics. What I mean is, will it be a verse? Will it be a chorus? Will certain parts of the vocal be a kind of throwaway ad-lib? This is where you're going to do that in custom. And this is where really, You know, past the first 15 seconds of this course, we're never going to use autogenerate again. And this is because I find that the actual lyrical content or the things in autogenerate actually take away a lot of the time from the depth or the nuance. It ends up feeling pretty lame and AI. So if I do want vocals, I tend to want to write them myself or write them in something separate like Claude and then put them into here. So let's actually go ahead and do something. thing in here. I'm gonna... we've got here soft, gentle R&B female vocalist. We're gonna keep that prompt again now, but what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna write a few lyrics. So let's do... I want you, baby. Yes, oh baby, oh baby. I need you, baby. My baby, oh baby. Cool. So this is really, like, just golden lyrics here that are I'm probably going to win me a Grammy in 2026. I don't know if that's actually the awards that I would win for great songwriting, but I probably will with this marvelous set of words. Now, the thing is, if I were to just put this in as is, we would still get results. But we're not actually dictating to the AI how we want this to be experienced. So what I'm going to first do is just shift enter to make a space and I'm going to put in square brackets. Square brackets are how we define structure. I'm going to put in here and I'm going to close those square brackets, which means that it's now going to interpret all of this as a verse. What does that mean? It just knows that if we were to now have another section here, which is going to be square brackets chorus, this is now going to be interpreted as being different to the other stuff. So this will infer in the music a slightly different section and it will differ harmonically in a way that maybe wouldn't have if we've just put a bunch of random words in there. So what are we going to do for our chorus? Let's do... I want you baby... "You're my everything." "I am yours, my love." Oh yes. Okay, so we've got, again, really, really great lyrics here. There's one other thing that I want to point you to. Let's actually just duplicate this down here. "I am yours, my love, forever." Okay, just fantastic. Really, really great stuff. The other thing that we can point out is that actually if you remember looking at the lyrics in here, I guess I've actually deleted them. Where was it? Yeah, you can see here that this is in a proper bracket. What I don't even know, we'll call them curved, smooth curved brackets. I don't know. That means interpret this section as an adlib. So I'm going to take some of these parts like this bit here and I'm going to put these in brackets. And what this is going to continue to put these bits of line in as vocal, but if this is being sung as the lead vocal, these will probably end up being distinct, timbrally, sonically mixed. Maybe it will be like backing choir doing that, but it will be separate, and it will feel like another section in the background. So, "I am yours, my love." Let's actually put here, "my love, oh yes." Also, it doesn't always, which is very interesting, finish this line before it throws those adlibs. It may actually start the O like here. It's very smart with how it does it. You don't have absolute control but you're going to see that it's truly crazy. So I am yours my love forever and then we'll do for ev er. Let's just do that. Let's see if this works. So let's go ahead and generate this and we're going to see what we get. We are actually in the R&B folder being very nice and organized. And let's just see what we get. Bearing in mind, again, it's still actually rewriting the prompt for us. And we're going to get to why that is. Because I touched on that at the beginning. Is that the fact that Udio automatically rewrites your prompt for you, in some ways, is great. Because, you know, you're getting variations away from what you originally intended. But in other ways, come on, like, we're deciding on our prompt. We might as well stick with it. You know, we've made our bed. Therefore, better prompt from it. But yeah, I'm actually going to pause this video for the first time so that I'm not talking and I will come back. Oh, there we go. No, no need to pause it. Here we go. Here are our two generations. I'm going to open this up. You can see because we used custom, one of the most important things is that we now have the same lyrics in both, which of course differed from when we used auto-generate because it wrote two separate prompts, it created two separate sets of lyrics. So because we've actually specified what the lyrics are, we're now able to actually try and So, I mean, I don't know about you, but that is really, really impressive to have taken such stupid, simple lyrics and to have made something that genuinely feels like really powerful, like something my mum would blast in the car. I'm really, really impressed. And yeah, you can see like this is only the beginning of AI music. And if you haven't actually experienced something like this before, God, we are only just getting started. Okay, let's take a listen to the other version as well. Bearing in mind that this prompt ended up being Smooth Soul Ballad Breakup. Yep, very nice. Oh, I'm actually going to take Breakup as a prompt. Fuck, let's go back. Yeah, I really like that. Let's take a listen to the other one now quickly. And you see, there's like a prime example of how it's like overlapped this with this, which is a really powerful part of using the brackets. because the brackets just allow for the AI to interpret those lyrics in a slightly bit more kind of a furry human way. Okay, so I want you to pause this video and have a little play around with creating some songs in custom mode using the verse and chorus setup. Of course, you want to play around with using some of these brackets, and this is also going to yield some really fun ad-libs, but I want you to pause this video right now and then go in So again, play around, come up with two or three ideas using this, and I shall see you back when you are done with that. Cool. I hope you enjoyed playing around with the custom vocal mode. You can see how insanely powerful this is. I'm not sure what prompts that you used for the actual style, but I hope that you were pleasantly surprised. Now we're just going to have a quick look further into what we can also do in this Lyric Editor section. Because these verse and chorus things, it's not just verse and chorus that exist. whole host other things. So if I get rid of this and I press the slash key, it actually brings up a view of all of these tags that actually exist. And so there's quite a lot of them. And some of them as well, you know, you need to actually go in and figure it out for yourself. Like, you know, you can custom create them. Whether or not they will work or not is to be seen. But there are a few in here that absolutely always work. So for example, why don't we take... "solo". And you can see down here it says "drop guitar solo, sax solo", all do interesting things. Let's just do "guitar solo". And we're going to leave it at that. So we're going to create this thing, we're going to do "guitar solo". Now I'm not totally sure how this is going to behave because of the fact that we've got a lot of prompts in here about vocals, but my intuition says that by just doing this, hopefully, even if it does give us a little bit of vocal, it's going to end up giving us primarily a I'm going to pause the video here and I'll be back in a second. Great. So it's got two here that the lyrics are just guitar solo. So let's take a listen to the first one. We all know that that's a harmonica, not a guitar. So one of the interesting things about this that I imagine the case is that because of the fact that we are having Udio just pick a prompt for us in the end, I feel like this might actually be interfacing. to some extent with how much we are able to control things here with the lyrics. But still important to note that there are a few other things in here. So for example we could say intro and then we could even say where if we go down here to spoken word let's put like my love for you is endless. I would walk 1,000 miles just to see, just to smell and then we'll do this. So we're just going to see what happens with this. There are a bunch in here to play around with. We're actually going to come back to this later on because these things actually pair a lot better with some of the more manual controls that we're going to be looking at further down the line. But first and foremost, just important to note that there are a few things in here that can really take what is just a great set of lyrics and actually paint them in something that is really, really evolving and delicious. So I'm going to pause the video and we'll We'll come back when these guys are done. Once again, we don't even need to do that. Let's take a listen. So in this case, actually, let's see. "My love for you is leadless" "I'm a walk a thousand miles just to smell you" "Just to smell you" Okay, so in this case it's actually... "My love" There we go, this is... "For use" "For use" "For use" "7 miles" So in this case it actually did work. Probably a little bit too spaced out for my liking but you can see that this actually did follow being a spoken word intro. Again you have to mess around with it a bunch just to make sure that you know enough generations probably will get what you want and from that point onwards but in this case it did not follow that at all and it added in a bunch of random songs and it only started this at the end. So I'm actually gonna get rid of that one because I know I'm bordering on saying I'd hate that. This spoken word one was cool but yeah pause the video So try out a few different things here. Maybe try some with a bridge or a hook. These ones work well. You could do drop, particularly if you're experimenting with making some electronic house things. Drop works very well. There's a few things in here that you could experiment with each section. So you could say like instrumental break and then you could do drop. And actually let's just try one more of these. I'm going to go in and maybe I've got a little something something here. We'll do this and see how this comes out. Okay, introspective, deep house, jazzy, bittersweet, sulfur vocals and R&B harmonies is ready. We've got an instrumental break following a drop. Also just want to note that I am in the jungle and rainy season is beginning, so it's about to start raining. So if there's any kind of pleasant white noise in the background or there's really unpleasant white noise in the background, that is what it is. It is rain, water falling from the sky. Let's take a quick listen to this and see how the instrumental break into the drop was understood. Not really very interesting. This one's kind of cool. Actually, take a moment. Okay, fair enough. Kind of interesting, but not really what we need or want in life. So is this the one we were listening to? This is where I actually want to now move on to possibly the most important part of how to use Oodio. And that's, again, if you look here, I said introspective deep house. I asked for house in the prompt. We didn't actually end up getting house here. We got disco, we got dance. Maybe we did get deep house, but there's not the prompt. that I asked for. So this is where we are now going to get introduced to advanced controls. Because this really is, I think, one of the most important parts of being able to maintain your sense of control, which as we all know is the most important thing in life, as you're prompting. So let's just move these guys out of the way. I'm going to refresh the page. And we are now ready to move on to how to use this like a big kid. controls. There is one particular setting that I want to draw your attention to that will ultimately create the most amount of difference. And that is manual mode. If we hover over here you can see what Udio themselves explain it as. It says manual mode allows you to directly prompt the model without any prompt rewriting, which is the issue we were having before. By default our system rewrites your prompts to improve the average output quality. If you are seeking specific sounds and want to to interact directly with the model interface, we recommend using Manual Mode. So this is the key. This is where, if you are taking this course, it's absolutely because of the fact that you want to go further. You want to go behind the scenes to, in some ways, really tinker with the cutting edge of what is available. And Manual Mode is the beginning of how we do that. So what Manual Mode means is that, of course, whatever it is that I put in here will end up being the final prompt. So as an example, I have a prompt here, 1960s Italian, French, blah blah blah blah blah. What I'm gonna do is do instrumental for this one, and I'm gonna create. And let's have a little look to see what happens. Of course, because of the fact that we have it on instrumental, no lyrics are going to be generated, and in fact even if we did auto-generate it, a lot of the time they don't end up putting vocals in with this prompt I have found. But let's not look at any of these other nice features yet. Let's wait to see what we get here. Cool. Our first two prompts are done. And again, look at what we wrote up here. 1960s Italian, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. I didn't have electric harmonica blues in there. That was a mistake. But if we click on this now you'll see that the prompt is the prompt that went into creating the track. Now why am I harping on about this? Why is this so important? Well, it means that when you find a prompt that you know you like the results from, you can come back to it. your sound that you like or various sounds that you like to work with and keep them in some sort of document that allows you... where the fuck is my mouse? There we go. If you keep them in some document then it allows you to come back to them every now and then and know the fact that the results you're going to get are going to be good. So let's take a listen to our 1960s Italian French French Riviera blah blah blah blah blah blah. This is stuff that I love to sample when I'm making house music or particularly that kind of like disco-y funky house sound. Let's take a listen. Very interesting panning, man. The way that it's... Oh! Stop it! That is fucking epic. Oh my goodness. Oh! Just glorious. Glorious music. If this was in a movie, I would enjoy the movie. Let's put it that way. Let's take a listen to the other one now. Elegance by the Sea. Oh! Oh, get the fuck out of here. Absolutely stunning sounds. You know, before this whole AI music realm, I used to spend so long looking for samples, that sounded even remotely like this. Huh. I just spent so long trying to find something that somebody else hadn't already used. I mean, that's pretty dark at the end there. Anyways, you get the point. Manual mode is the way to go. So in order to get there, all you do is open up advanced controls and click manual mode. I want you to now pause this video and play around with creating three or four things using manual mode. Perhaps, and I would actually recommend this, try doing the same prompt a bunch of times. So, you know, you could put that You click create depending on what plan you're on after a couple of seconds when this create button comes up you can actually generate a few things all at once. I believe if you're on the $10 a month you can do six at the same time. I'm spending $30 a month because I'm cool and it's important to me that I have this rather cool style reference thing later on that I'm going to show you but I can actually do eight. So what's nice about this of course is that you are using the same prompt. You're then doing eight in the same style and every single one of these has exactly the same prompt. And this actually is going to lead quite nicely into why it is that they all sound different if we're using the same prompt. But for now let's just take a quick listen to some of the things that we've ended up with. I think it's really interesting how the model has interpreted that era, the 1960s, to do that very interesting panning, which I believe is around the time when they started using stereo sound and everybody was like, "Wait, I can put the drums on the left, I can put the bass on the right." But that's very... Oh, get out of here. Get out of town. This is so filmic. Anyways, I'm gonna tell you now, pause the video and just go in, create a bunch of things using the same prompt on manual mode and I shall see you back when you are done with that. Okay, rather nautily I have let my folder get pretty big so I'm actually gonna go in here and I'm gonna create, let's do this, Italian soundtrack, do create folder and I'm actually just gonna just click, shift click down and open this guy up so we can see them. I'm going to drag this into my Italian soundtrack folder just to be very good, keep things nice and tidy. Brilliant. Let's go back into course. Right, okay. Now we have got to the meat and potatoes, the real essence of using Udio, and it's only taken us 38 minutes to do so. Inside of the advanced controls, beyond just manual mode, there are a few other settings that we now need to explore in order to further I have control of Udio. Starting at the top, and I'm just going to give you a high-level overview of what all these things do, and then we'll look at how we can actually influence the music that we generate with it afterwards. Of course, manual mode is always going to be what we want. I'm going to show you also how we can make it so that that's automatically on and we don't have to come in and change this. Just below that we now have model. Now when I first started using Udio, which was a big upgrade on the quality and the overall sound. But only recently did they bring out the Allegro add-on to the V1.5 model, which as far as I understand it has really just made it a lot faster. So by default this is on. If you change it to V1.5 you'll get pretty similar results but it will just be a bit slower. So leave this on by default. Then you have down here length. So this is a big thing and I'm gonna come back to this in a little bit but based off of the way that I use Udio, I tend to use the 2 minute 10 second option. And I'm gonna go a little deeper into why that is later on but here you can choose to generate as we've been listening to 32 second clips or you can generate 2 minutes and 10 seconds all in one go. Let's put this back to 32 seconds. The only difference is of course that it uses 2 credits to do the 32 2 second but it uses 2 minutes, 10 seconds to use 4 credits for the 2 minutes, 10 seconds, which is pretty crazy. Let's go back down to 32 here. You can see that we then have 'song structure'. Now this is also very crucial for how you actually end up using the model. One of the things that you'll notice is that whether we were on Manualmode or not, a lot of the things that we were generating, we're just starting like mid-line. starting point for a piece of music to just begin halfway through. Like what? Where is that? That's not a one. Sure, it's not a downbeat, but it's definitely not the intro. So, song structure here. This is where you actually get to dictate where in the song it starts. So, by default, it's on automatic, and I don't really know what automatic means in this case, because I guess it just figures out what would be best. I don't know what it's depending that on. However, if we have this on manual, you'll see that by default it starts at 40% into the song, which is why we're getting things feeling like potentially they're just come out of the first chorus or around that kind of realm. If you want to make something so that it starts at the beginning, you're going to put it all the way to the end. No, you're not. You're going to put it all the way to the beginning. The beginning here, of course, means that it's going to start generating out what the "intro" would be. Now, the only problem with this is sometimes it doesn't start on the one. Sometimes you may actually have some silence at the beginning. You may have some kind of weird noise, some sort of textures. This can be very cool, but it's just important to note that this doesn't mean that it's going to start on a kick or start on a downbeat. It's going to start oftentimes from silence. You've also then got lyric timing here. This is... if you have lyrics up here... created earlier. Do we have any of those? Guitar solo... Let's just take these for now. If I were to put these in here and I were to do this, this means that the vocals are going to start straight away. This means that they're going to begin as soon as the track begins. By default these are on auto, which means that it will try and slot them in at a relevant place. So if you want for this thing to start at zero on the clip start, and then you want this to start here at the beginning, this is going to So let's in fact give this a go. We need to put these in custom and I'm going to take our... Where's our soft prompt here? Okay so I'm going to put this up here. This now means that when it... this verse... let's actually change this to intro and we'll do this as verse. This is going to start the track at the beginning and the vocals are going to start at the beginning. So let's create... oh for some reason it's logged out. Okay, interesting. I'm just going to log in, I guess. Let's just take this moment to take a quick shout out to our sponsor today, Discord. Okay, we're back. Fucking hell, and it's taken all of my hard work filling out this delicious prompt. Okay, we'll do manual mode. We'll do clip start at the beginning. We'll do lyric timing at the beginning. Go into R&B. We're going to take our gentle prompt up here, go into custom, and then let's just take our award-winning lyrics. In fact, maybe let's just keep this as verse and see what happens. So I'm going to generate something where the click start is zero and the lyric timing is also zero. And in theory this should give us a track that starts at the very beginning. Sorry, there's a very strange selection of bugs in my studio today crawling all over my body in some of the most untoward places. While we wait for that to continue on, let's just continue down in the options. You've got here another prompt section. This is a style reduction. So putting in tags in here there are a lot to choose from. You can also create presets here. I'm going to show it to you what I mean is if we go say pop you can't just type anything like you can't do pop as deloader because that's not a real prompt. You have to use things that are actually selectable in here but let's do pop. Let's do does commercial exist? No it doesn't. Let's do cheesy also doesn't exist. I guess these have to be you know specific things. Maybe we don't want conscious. We don't want conscious You can pick in here, just put a letter and then you can see all of the things that are actually available. And then here you can create a preset. So this is a preset. Huh. New preset added successfully. ShadCN components. Let's see. Has it actually kept my preset? Yes, it has. Nice. So you can actually create presets in here of things that you absolutely do not want. Boom, just click it in. Very nice. We also got the letter A. Let's take a quick listen to check out what we've got here, bearing in mind this was clip start zero and lyric timing zero. Let's go. Strangely it hasn't done any lyrics at all. Can I do instrumental for these? Is that why? No, weird. Okay, so important to note that it doesn't always follow your instructions, but in theory this is how it would go. This is a lot more useful, this lyric timing. I find when you're using the longer time model, the two minute ten seconds, but clip start is obviously very helpful if you actually forget this. What we can say is that both of those prompts start at the beginning, which is of course a lot handier for then not having to then generate an intro for it. We've got the intro and we can actually continue on from there. Of course we've got our style reduction we just looked at. This is handy for getting rid of if you were making some sort of like house music. I don't want jazz. Cool, so it's probably not going to and we've got prompt strength and lyric strength. Now prompt strength is how much actually what you've put at the top influences it. So this thing, this is how much it will actually influence it. 100% will 100% follow your prompt. What does that mean exactly? Who knows? But they say that it can often yield less natural sounding results. Maybe that's what we want sometimes. So this is definitely something to experiment with. Bringing prompt strength down to nothing gives it a little bit more leeway in being able to create slightly further away from what it is that you've asked for. This is by default at 50%. You can play around with finding a sweet spot for that. But again, these things are things that I think are more useful when we're actually exploring seeds later on. We've got here 50% lyric strength, which means that the things that we write here, there's a 50% chance that it will follow this. I don't mean 50% chance, it will follow at 50%. One of the issues that we just had with this clip start at the beginning. If I put lyric strength to 100, in theory what that's going to do is now mean that it's definitely going to start the vocals, these things, it's definitely going to play them, and hopefully we won't end up with just a full instrumental. Now the final three controls that we have are clarity. This is useful, they say, for if you're then trying to split those results. So the instrument separation is increased by clarity. Having this at 100% means that the sounds in there, the drums, the bass, the music, there is more separation between them. Excuse me. However, I don't think this always works super well, and I'm going to demonstrate how you can prove this yourself, but I tend to want to keep this around 100% because I'm always going to be separating the elements. Particularly if the kind of music that I'm generating is something like a disco track or like a rock track or whatever, where there are multiple instruments, I want that clarity to be at its So if this does work on some occasions, I keep it up. But if we're making something where it's say just a solo piano, this doesn't really need to be something that we consider too much. You could even leave it at low clarity. It says that it will yield more natural results with it lower. I don't really buy it. Seed, super important. We're going to skip over this for now and we're going to come back to that in a second. And then generation quality. This is a key thing. It says here that the experimental trade quality for speed or generation blah blah blah blah. In theory, this is the highest quality generation you can get, and it is slower. In theory, this is the lowest quality, it's fastest. This doesn't do anything, and I will, again, prove this to you later on. These speed things, this is faster, and the actual quality is no worse, and you can prove this by phase cancelling one that's generated at fastest with one that's generated at the slowest, and they cancel out totally, which means that they are But yeah, I tend to keep this on the fastest mode. Let's take a quick listen to what we got from our 100% lyrics strength. Here we go. It's interesting how again it's just decided to remove some of those vocals. Yeah, it's literally got rid of the verse. But yeah, let's move on for now. What I want to show you before I then set you off to take another little stab at this yourself is that most of these settings, if I were to actually just refresh the page now so we lose everything, I come back to Udio now and I open up Advanced Controls. Manual mode is off. Fucking generation quality is at high. There are things here that I always have the same every time. And so I want you to go over to your preferences now. And this is going to take you to the defaults. So here, generation defaults, I want to put generation quality to fastest. This is going to be obviously the quickest way to use Udio and I don't believe that you sacrifice any quality. Also, manual mode, on. We always need this on. Clarity, I'm going to bring this up to 100%, and we're also going to put Custom as the default Lyric setting. Now we click Save Preferences. Boom! We've got a nice little popover, Sonor, ShadCN notification tag here. Let's go back to Create now, and if I refresh the page, what's nice is that every time I come to Udio, boom, we've got Custom on, we've got Manual Mode on, and a lot of these things don't even necessarily then need to be adjusted before that. So please take a moment to pause this video. Fucking hell. Go back to your preferences page. At this point, I want you to adjust everything so it looks like this and I shall see you in a second. Now that you've got your preferences set up, we're just going to click Save Preferences and come back to the Create page. Because now I want to explore one of, I think, the most important and potentially overlooked features that can really help you experiment or refine, refine, on a specific idea. So, Let's now go in here. I'm gonna find another prompt to use and we're gonna try... What else have we got? Okay, we'll try to do this. We'll do world music folk music. One of the places where ironically I think that this app really shines, this AI music generating app, I think it really shines in creating like very nuanced traditional world folk music. I know, what a weird thing to be saying. "cultural folk music". It really captures the nuance of specific vocal traditions. You sometimes get Native American kind of songs that are just absolutely crazy. But what I want to show you now is all of these settings at this point are going to pretty much stay the same as we move on. For some reason auto-generated... Let me just make sure that my preference is set to "custom". Huh, weird. Okay, we'll go back to "create". Let's see if it is doing that. in here. Actually, maybe we'll do auto-generate for this just because I want to demonstrate with... No, no, no, no, no. Sorry, I'm losing my mind here. We're gonna do... Yeah, because I don't actually want to write lyrics. We'll do auto-generate in this case for lyrics, which is fine. But what I want to show you down here is seed. Now, a seed, as they call it, a number that defines the contents of a clip. In manual mode, a prompt will always yield a similar output when a fix "seed" is used. Note, when not in manual mode, your prompt is processed in a random way that isn't controlled by the seed. Okay, cool. So the seed by default is set to -1. If you've ever explored tools like Stable Audio... sorry, Stable... Stable Diffusion for images and use any of those kind of like AI image generating services... Sorry, I've got to roll my funny wheelie chair around. There are things called seeds. There are things called CFG clips and all of these. the number which defines the starting point for the randomness to occur. So you're going to end up with similar results using the same seed again and again and again with changing other parameters. And if you use exactly the same parameters in different seeds you're going to get different results. I know that's a super waffly way of saying, "What's going on here?" Well, -1 stands for create a random one every time. So if you leave it at -1, if you type in a number, you're going to actually use that specific to that specific seed. But if you do -1, which you can also just click this and it returns it to default, it's going to give you a random result every time. So if we click here now, I'm going to do create, we're going to generate two pieces of audio. I'm also then going to do, again, create. And what I'm going to show you now is how we get two pieces of audio. Of course, I think what works with a seed is that they will both be related to one seed. So the seed value will give two pieces of audio. Let's take a listen to the first result. It says it's not ready yet. Let's just refresh. And we're going to go to our results. This is the first one. Cool. Fair enough. It's decided to actually do lyrics as well. Oh, that's so good. I forgot to mention that auto-generate can be helpful if you're trying to create like folk music or like world music. Because it tends to then actually fit in the style of the sounds. That's really nice. Anyways, the point is that those two tracks are going to be different than these two tracks, even though the prompt is exactly the same, all of the settings are identical for all of them. Let's take a listen. Yeah, very cool. But the interesting thing is that if we now click on this and we can go here to create, we can now copy not just the prompt that was used for that, we could do copy seed number or we could do copy track settings and now this is making sure that we're using the same prompt, everything set up exactly the same. But if we now go here to copy seed number and we put that in to here and we create again, we're now creating two more generations that that will be, and here is the key part of this, identical to these two. So you're going to say, "Well, why? Why is that useful? Why do we want duplicates?" And the key here is that this means that we can actually make subtle changes to the other parts of the prompt and see how that shifts or moves things away. And this is where I said using prompt strength as a percentage, this is where it can come in very handy. And it means that we can actually compare. Let's do Wisdom of the Yet-Hands. que son los testos. Interestablemente, these have varied. Oh, creo que, porque hemos tenido esto en auto-generación, está en suave de cambiar. Si hubiera esto en custom, se encontrará que se puede... ¡Vamos ver cómo es varied! So yeah, actually in this case, because we had it on auto-generate, it's created a variation of the same song, mind, with different lyrics, because the actual lyrics have influenced how it's worked. But on custom mode, if we pick a random number, so we'll just do a little dice here, I like this, let's do 8 8 8 8, let's do a bunch of 8s. We'll do 8 8s and see what this comes up with as a prompt. Now this means that if I go here, and I'll do "World Folk Music", "Regional", "Ritualistic". Let's in fact do an instrumental for this. Make sure that everything else is fine. We're going to create. And then I'm going to create again. But by keeping the seed the same, and because we've got the custom instrumental also generated, because we've got it on instrumental or custom, it's not actually going to be rewriting the song every time, we're now able to try some other stuff. So here's where I mentioned about prompt strength. So if this is working and this is doing it at 50%, why don't we make one where the prompt strength is 0 and then we'll also make one where the prompt strength is 100. This is something that I like to do when testing out these features is to basically use extremes. So you're going to see now here this is the result at 50%, let's take a listen. This is 88888. Very cool. Let's take a listen to this one. Woah. It's gonna be great for a Psytrance track. Very cool. So now we've got a 0%. Let's take a listen to the same thing. Voice of the Angel. So this is roughly the same. This is our 0% prompt strength. And essentially just go straight to the other one. So this is 100%. You can see that that sounds kind of strange. But the point remains that this means that we can get variations of the same kind of prompt. Let's take a listen to the other one, which was this one. This is zero percent. Very cool how it's creating these subtle variations. That means that we can actually use both of these or all of these as stems and capture those different elements. Let's take a listen to the hundred percent prompt strength. It's the same... it's the same piece. Anyways, that's the point. Super cool way of being able to find a prompt that you like and then experiment with it. Now this prompt strength, playing around with that, you could obviously, you don't have to do 0 and 100. You could do like 0, you could do a 10, a 20, 30. You could do as many as you want, but playing around with creating different variations of the same seed, same prompt, and just adjusting prompt strength. Or if you had custom lyrics in here, playing around with these, this is a game changer. Now I want you to pause the video and go ahead and play around with using this same prompt, but the same prompt, same seed, and do a few variations of that. And I hope that this is super cool and it feels full of possibilities and exciting, and I'll see you in a second. Cool. I hope that yelled. I hope that yielded. I hope that yelled. I hope that yelled some good results. Another concept that we can explore with using the same seed value is if we go down here to say 50% again, I'm going to pick another number. Let's do 77777777s. And I'm going to generate something, maybe still using this same prompt. We'll see, create. But at the same time, I'm going to keep everything else the same. So if we click create again, obviously nothing is going to change. It will be identical. But if we go in here now and slightly change what we have, so let's do... Let's also add in here gospel. We're just adding one more word to the mix, which in theory shouldn't change it too much, but by creating from that same place with a slightly different prompt, we're actually able to now compare how radically or not so radically we can create little Adjustments. Almost like changing the seasoning in a dish. So let's take a listen to the original without the word gospel in. Very nice. Okay, so let's take a listen with the updated word. So it's changed it ever so slightly. This has added a didgeridoo. Interesting. So, just adding gospel hasn't actually gone on and made it a complete gospel track. But what we can also do is if we like a word and want it to feature more, we can actually increase the amount of times that that word is listed. And this should elicit a slightly bit more shift to gospel. I'm also going to go down here and make sure that our prompt strength is up top. Maybe let's put it so it's not 100%. We'll put it to like 80. Okay, very cool. So bearing in mind, this is the one that it's taking. This one has those funny drums in the background, but with adding gospel a bunch of times, it's now seemed to have made it just an acapella. Oh, oh. Really good. Now let's take the other one, which is this one. What's it done with that? Completely wrong. So in this case, I like this one that we've got here. What I want to also now do, let's do like backing vocals, we'll do choir, we'll do harmonies, we'll do rich, and we'll do lush. Cool, let's add that in and let's see. Because what I'm trying to do here is I took this original prompt, which I guess was this one, and we're trying to just shift that more towards what I do want. And you know, it's not super technical or specific here. It is really kind of intuitive. What kind of words do you want to see more of? Can you push those words more prominently into the prompt at the beginning? Can you duplicate the amount of times they happen? What I'm trying to do here is to take this rich gospel type harmonies. So here's I guess that silly drum one. Oh well okay let's see if we actually get any backing vocals now. Maybe what I could do is remove ritualistic. We'll get rid of shamanic. We'll get rid of tribal and we'll do one more variation of this and hopefully this This is interesting how it's actually just completely got rid of those vocals. And also, one thing that we could add here is we could say, like, no drums. We could say no percussion. We could say no congas, no bongos, no shakers. And, you know, this style reduction is really helpful when you're using the same seed, trying to iterate on something to get it in that case. Let's also do "drums" and "set". And we'll do one more "create to see". Now we've gone miles away from it. We probably would have wanted to keep some of those tribal ritualistic terms. We get the idea, we're still using the same seed value, so in theory this should be similar in some ways to one of these. At this point we've probably shifted it too far away to be able to see if it's recognisable, but... Here's our variation of that now that we've changed the prompt sufficiently. Okay, so pause the video and play around with changing the prompt while keeping everything else the same and I shall see you shortly. Okay, I'm going to refresh the page. Let's go back to the very beginning. I've got a seed value here that is back to minus one, so we're going to be getting a different random setup every time. What I want to now do is generate something that we can experiment with extending and doing variations of. So what have I got here that could be kind of fun? Why don't we take... I've got this one. It's kind of nice. I'm going to take soft, quiet, minimal, sparse, blah blah blah blah blah. We take that, we'll do custom. And in this case I'm actually going to go to auto generate and we'll do a minus one seed value just so that we can get something workable and ready to rock and roll. This is going to take... Oh fuck, we're in the wrong folder. It's going to take a little second and what I want to demonstrate for you now is that although we are generating a 32 second clip that starts at 40 percent, we haven't got this at zero, therefore it's not starting with the intro. One of the things that's kind of handy about starting it at 40 percent is you're sort of beginning at a peak, you know, you're beginning at a moment of high energy where you can really decide whether or not that song is something that you'd like to push, you'd like to hear more of. So if we take this now. In the quiet morn. Oh, that's kind of cool. As the daylight breaks, the world whispers are pleading. That's really cool. In the timeless grace. Memories are woven, eyed, hurts in the air. Very cool. Okay, so let's just rock with this one. If I click on this track, you'll notice that there's the option to do a few things to it. We've got Extend, Remix, Edit and Style. I'm gonna click Extend, and that's gonna shift over here on what we're seeing. The fact that now we're extending on from Whispers of Dawn, we can pick what the prompt is that we'd like to use for the extension, we can pick whether to custom add lyrics, make instrumental auto-generate, we can I can even change the settings here. But I'm not going to do anything first and I'm instead just going to extend exactly as is. We want it on auto-generate in this case because I want it to keep coming up with lyrics but if we wanted to put in a bit more effort to create our own custom lyrics like our Grammy award-winning ones earlier we could here. Final thing to note as well is that extension placement is saying add to the section after. So whatever we have here, this is our song. It wants it to then continue on from that section. We could do a section before which would... and we will do add a section before which is what then creates a bit before this but let's just extend a section after first. While that's happening why don't we take a listen to the other option it gave us. Even the sibilance, like the mouth noise, the little whistle, super realistic. Stunning. Okay, we've got our extensions. You'll note that because the tracks are 32 seconds long, when you add it halfway through 32 seconds longer, that's when the next section begins. So let's just play with a little bit of context before. Once this number goes over 32... Let's listen to our other variation. Again at 32. A little bit of mouth noise there. Somebody needs a pop filter. "I think this one was better." So what we're gonna now do again is click "extend" on this new one. So extending the extension one. I'm gonna add a section before. I'm also gonna click maybe... leave it as auto-generate for now. I'm gonna click "extend" and we're gonna have a one minute and forty... one minute and fifty second clip to work with. as well that it can make as many generations as you want. You can keep skipping back and forth until you find the right spot. But there is no easy interface on here for if you create a nice intro with a version that you don't like afterwards. You can't easily join them all together. So this is something that later on we're going to have to then download these and chop them up in Ableton to best be able to merge separate parts together. So if we press play on this one now, this one minute and 38 second track, at 32, "Sacred In the circle of our hearts we are never alone. All this bond we cherish. Very cool. Of course we can add an intro, we can add an outro to any of these ones that we particularly like. What is this? In the corner In the corner Let's say that we like this one. I'm going to add an intro just to get one more variation. While we wait for that though, I'm gonna just open up this section here because one thing that you can see is that we're saying to crop and extend. So if we were to extend from here we're extending off this whole track. If we wanted to say actually just extend from here... Now we could... We could define to it that that's the section we want to work with. We want to get rid of everything else. And this is a really great way of being able to obviously Remove parts that you don't like before generating on. So in this case... Maybe we actually wanted to continue on from the vocal, we could do that. So let's take a listen to our intro now. I noticed I actually extended off of the previous one rather than... "Each heartbeat and rhythm as we dance through the..." Very cool. You get the idea. So, actually, pause this video and I want you to go and generate something. And then once it is generated, you know, from this view that you've generated something, go over here, click "Extend" and try out creating some after sections and some before sections. And make sure, of course, that if you want to extend an extension that you then go and click on the extension itself. And then you're going to end up with something that looks like 212212, and that's dictating which one of the two options you picked for the extension. But pause the video now, go ahead, create some variations of these sections, and I shall see you shortly. Nice. I hope you got some good results with those extensions. Next up I want to show you something really cool for when you find something that you like, you really dig the vibe, but you want to create a few more pieces to use, perhaps, other than just creating sections after it. You want to imagine the same thing again with a subtle difference. So I've got a piece here, Urban Reverie, that's a very cool housey sound. Let's take a quick listen to what we've got. You'll notice that this is 2 minutes and 11 seconds because I was using the length mode. Very nice. Now, instead of extend, what I want to now do is do remix and remix will then bring up this yellow view and it allows us to pick because this is too long this is actually a you know two minutes and 10 seconds long thing you need to pick 32 seconds because remix works in the 32 second mode it doesn't let you oh my goodness it does they didn't used to do that now you can remix the whole thing so of course we've got this track i'm not going to change the prompt at all i'm not going to change anything else All I'm gonna do is go in here and do "variants". So just leaving it at 0.5%... If I now remix this... Let's also do another one. We'll do 0.25%. We'll do one more at 0... interestingly they do 0.76. And yeah, we'll see what those kind of results lead to. So bearing in mind we have "Urban Reverie" down here. And we are generating a 50% variation. 50% different, then we've got 25% different, and then 75% different. And then just for shits and giggles, let's do a 100% as well. So this is a really cool way. Perhaps I should have actually demonstrated this with a shorter length clip, but this is a really great way of being able to use something that you already like and just create variations that will be, at least most of the time, in key and in the same tempo. So this is a really, really helpful way of being able to, when you do find something you like, "Yo, give me more pieces for this song. Give me more things that I can sample and add into this original song." So again, let's take a quick listen to around, say, here. Oh, fuck. This is our intro. Now let's listen to the 50% difference. Slightly different. in this one much better. So yeah, in that case you can see that the drums have improved. Now we've got another variation that's also 50% different. You can see it's just the same thing. It's like saying yes, but give it to me slightly different. I'm excited to hear what the drums sound like in this one. I mean, these drums are so good. Very cool. Now we've got a 25% difference. This is obviously going to be more similar. Now we've got another 25% difference. Now it's starting to get fun. We've got a 75% difference. So it's really changed the overall sounds that are being used. But it's following the same structure, the same key. Oh, oh, oh. That's really, really cool. Is that in a flute? We got another 75% different. With a weird vocal. And now, just for good measure, we've got our 100% variation difference. So again, still following the same structure, same key, but just really allowing him to say, OK, let's vary this a lot. Crazy little organ solo there. And what's cool is because we defined the bass of this being a house track, all of the variations that we do to it will kind of fit into that house structure. Really, really cool. Okay, so pause the video and I want you to go and and experiment with this yourself. Find something that you've generated already, and then put it onto Remix mode as we did. You're gonna go here, click Remix. At this point I want you to play around with creating some variations, but just playing with this knob. So maybe do a couple at 50%, do some at 25%, and see exactly what it is that you end up getting, and I shall see you shortly. Cool. So we've looked at using the Variance slider for the remixes. One other thing that I just want to point your attention to is that you can also change the prompt, thus changing the sound of the song beyond just having a variation of it. What I mean by this is I've got a kind of disco track here. It's very, very cool. I'm gonna do remix and you'll see as well that if it had lyrics, what's nice is it keeps the lyrics in there. You could go in and adjust those lyrics. have the prompt that I used for that. So let's actually just make sure that we change this to... What's going on? Why is it not showing me the remix? Where is... Oh, I guess it's here. That's why we need to change this to the full two minute and ten second piece. What I want to do now is I'm going to remove any mention of disco. So let's do Chicago. Let's actually just make this like deep house. with just not too different of a set of prompts, but we're giving it enough distance away from having to think it's disco that hopefully it's going to give us a slightly more housey version of that same track using the same lyrics. Why don't we also, out of interest, just try and do a bit more of a variation from this. We'll do remix here and then maybe we'll go down and do one a little less as well, just for some kind of context. So I'm excited to see what we get here. Let's take a quick listen again to what we're working from. I absolutely love the drums in this one. How does it begin? Very cool. Let's take a listen to our first variation. It now feels a little bit more housey Fair enough. There's another variation This one's got a sort of 80s guitar vibe Nice, okay this was again a 50%, let's try a 25% or maybe this was the 75%. It's now pushed it a lot more into the realm of the new prompt. That's kinda cool! This is the other one from that batch. Disgusting! Here are the 25% variations. Obviously a lot more predictable if we actually bring this up. Let's put it down to 50% and I'm actually just going to show you as well. what happens if we take what we've already got. So let's say we'll remove the prompt that we currently have and we're going to remix that song at 50% variance with an entirely different prompt. So we're going to go for that 1960s Italian French Riviera soundtrack sound and hopefully it's going to take the structure of what we've got and somehow it's going to present that to us with this different prompt. I don't know if you played around as well when you using the extension thing with changing the prompt. That's an option of something that you can do. So dive into that if you haven't already and let's just take a look to see what we've got. Right, this is the remix with a completely different prompt. Let's take a quick lesson again to what we're kind of basing it from. "Cresting Shadows" in my mind. You like when I see the same or no. I see the same or no. by pushing it fairly far away from the original and giving it a really explicit prompt that is in a completely different genre. But in the meantime, I want for you to pause this video and then go in and experiment with making some cool remixes where the actual prompt is what's changing and you're experimenting with changing the variants just to see like how subtly or extremely you can take what is one good idea and create like a few variations of that. So I'll see you in a sec. Okay, I hope that you got some cool results with playing around with your prompts. We've got the results of our little experiment here to play with. This was a 75% push with it trying to become 1960s Italian French. Soundtrack music, let's take a listen. We got another variation again... Once again, it's done that 1960s crazy panning. ...the realest scene shadows in my mind. If only I could've told you... ...the streets that... ...we... ...we... Reveal what happens if we try and prompt it to become techno. Doesn't really sound warehousey techno but it's definitely pushed it more into that higher energy drum vibe. Nice. Okay, we're gonna leave that as is and I think it's probably time to move back into the course folder so that we're not completely losing our mind. I'm gonna take all of these just for good measure and put them in a folder because I don't really care about organizing this right now. What I do want to do now is go back to reset and let's find one thing in here that we think is cool. We're gonna go back to the 32 seconds. pieces just for speed let's find something in here what was this okay cool let's take this as an example what we can also do instead of extending and remixing is if we go here to edit We're actually able then to go in and change sections of lyrics. We're able to change sections completely. So if we take a quick listen to what we've got... This is the wrong one. Okay, we're going to edit here. So let's take a listen to what we've got. Cool, so we've got lyrics saying "I want you, baby." I'm going to change this to "I don't want you, baby." "No, baby, oh no, baby." And I say "I don't need you, baby." "I'm good on my own." And then we'll say "Oh yeah, Yeah, cool. So let's just replace that. And we've got Model 32. This is all fine, exactly as we want. Advanced features. Leave it as is. Let's do Edit. And what this is going to do is if we actually drag this back and forth as well, we're able to pick which sections are actually generating. So we can see here that. We're going to get some variations of this. We're gonna have ones where it's a strong independent woman who don't need no man. In this case, it's actually got rid of those vocals. So yeah, there's a good example of how you can adjust the lyrics after the fact. You can also replace a section. So if we now go here and do Confirm Discard Changes... Let's find a section in here. If we go to Edit... Let's take this. This is actually going to show you what sections that you can and we're gonna go down here and we're gonna go in and instead of editing the the section we're gonna go down here and we're gonna replace the section completely and we're gonna give it a different prompt so let's say we'll give it this. So include original prompt. Let's remove that ideally. And actually let's see because we've now got a different prompt what we can also do is go down here and there should be a section that allows us to define how much before it listens to. I guess not. Okay so let's just go with it. Let's just edit this. You must select a style source. Oh I don't need style on there. So now we're gonna do edit just to see what happens if we replace a section with an entirely different prompt. We're not changing the lyrics. So the lyrics should in theory continue as they are and we'll see what we've got there. Cool. So let's take a listen from 19 seconds in. This thing now changes. So... Not really very different. Anyways, you might want to experiment with that, but inpainting, by going to edit here, allows you to replace specific sections within a generation and not be necessarily bound to having to create an entirely new one just because you don't like a specific line. So go ahead and pause this video and then I want for you to have a play around with some of these inpainting techniques. Try editing lyrics and then try also just fully replacing a section inside of something else and I shall see you in a second. Cool. I hope you got some cool results playing around with inpainting which actually kind of leads us to the end of our deep dive, at least for now, into the interface of Udio. And we're now going to be moving into perhaps the main reason that you're here, which is how to actually produce music with these generations. And the first thing that we're going to be looking at is splitting. How we can take these pieces of audio and create workable stems from them. Because it's one thing to just sample an entire piece of music, but what if you only want the drums? What if you want to replace the bass with something else? What if you want to use just a snippet of the vocal throughout the whole thing and to sort of paste it over without having all of the underlying music come with it? So, in the next module we're going to be diving in to all of the options for splitting and I shall see you there.
