Congratulations on getting this far in the course. You should now have a pretty decent understanding of how you can utilize the most cutting-edge AI music tools right now to create some really rather magical sounds. One thing I really want to dive into, double click as my friend Sepp says, into a little further, is just optimizing sound quality. Because while the quality of the audio is not garbage, we are definitely able to make things with it. It does require a little bit as we've seen of effort to tidy things up, to refine them, and to repair some of the sounds in order to use them and have them actually feel good in a mix. So we looked at utilizing a couple of things like Snapback for drums and also using my little AI toolbox, which is very simple but it's an effective way I've found of just making shit pop, making shit work. Another couple of plugins that I really want to introduce you to that I must I must just say precursor. I don't think any of these are cheap per se. You know, this module if by any means you suffer from gas, gear acquisition syndrome, and you struggle not to buy everything that you see in a video online, I would recommend that you just skip this module and actually just go back to making music. But if you are open to seeing what kind of premium options there are that exist, that I use every day, all the time, to take these sounds and make them just sound way way better, then stick around. because I've got a couple of plugins that I want to show you today. Some of which you may be familiar with, others that you may not. Let me just find this piece of audio that's supposed to go there. Okay, so this is the piece of audio that we're going to be working with today. Why don't we take a little listen to what it is that I want to share with you. And I know this isn't a stem. We're actually going to be working, at least for now, just on a whole master, on a generated mix of something we got from AI. because I just want to demonstrate a couple of little key things here. So let's take a listen to what we have. Oh, shit. Sorry, here we go. So if I bring up my Tonal Balance Control we can see that it's a pretty good mix. It's maybe lacking some lower upper mids and maybe the bass is a little excessive but overall it sounds good. There's a little bit of sharpness to it. There's a little bit of that AI brilliance should we say but overall it sounds good. Surely it can't sound that much better and by all means you could go in and just use this as is. It would sound perfectly fine. I'm not be able to tell the difference. But if we do want to explore some of the, maybe the characteristics of what the sound is lacking, I want to introduce you to a few plugins. So there's a couple, I'm just going to load them all up here first. We've got Gulfos, and what Gulfos is, is it's an intelligent equalizer that adapts in real time to, I guess, how they word it. Let's see if we've still got it here, Gulfos. It listens to a signal and decides how to prepare the audio so that your brain can get the most information out of it. Very fancy. And when used right, it's pretty transparent. You know, when used correctly, I would say, you almost don't really notice it being on there. But I just want to show you what it does. So I'm just going to play from here. We'll just keep this going as a bit of a loop. We've got these two main controls, Recover and Tame. Recover is going to try and increase the clarity in areas that are currently being masked, and Tame is going to try and decrease the areas where you've got a little bit, perhaps too much of an unruly resonance. So let's just play through and I'm gonna push these quite extreme so you can hear what they're doing. You're also gonna be able to visually see. So let's start actually with recover. We're gonna try and then recover the parts that are being masked by frequency. So you'll see in real time how it works. So you can see there it's actually decided for some reason. Obviously we are at 186 percent. A lot of people are People that I see using this plug-in tend to keep it around the 20-30 range. I like to push it to 200% sometimes. But what you can see is it's really boosting the high frequencies here. Which interestingly, if we turn this off and we look at tonal balance control, that's sort of the area where we're a bit low anyway. As we bring this on, you'll see that now we're starting to fill that out a lot nicer. So straightaway Gullfoss is filling in the blanks a little bit, just trying to recover what has been lost. Now let's bring that back down to zero. I'm going to have a look at tame. So this is going to again focus more on reducing, whereas this is increasing. This is going to be focused more on decreasing some of those areas where we're having a lot of resonance come through. So let's listen. Let's see how this is impacting this. You can hear that's reducing a lot of that low end, that unnecessary low end that we had around the 100 area. So now let's do 200% on both just to really push this to extreme. So it's recovering the areas that are too little and it's taming the areas that are too much. So let's take a listen now. I think we can all agree that that is way too much high end. I'm just going to bring this down for our extreme demonstration, something like 1, 4, 5. One thing to note as well is that this Brighton knob allows you to actually darken what you've done. And this white line is actually going to be indicating how far we need to bring it back to get it back to the sort of the Unity position. If I bring it to Unity it almost sounds a bit boring. But if we let that come up a little bit, I'm going to bring these guys down. And let's compare with it on and off. So this to me sounds kind of like one-dimensional. All of a sudden bringing Gulfoss in is starting to really bring out that high end as well as also taming that low end. Very nice. Okay so you know obviously we don't need to use it in as extreme of a setting and a lot of the time we're not going to be using this on uh well we will use it on the master I'll show you that in a sec but a lot of the time we may be using this uh just um on an individual layer so it's important to know that sometimes you may need to push this to a really high level in order to get what you're looking for. So I'm actually going to turn that off now and I'm going to I'm gonna introduce you to another plugin that chances are you probably know, which I highly recommend, which is this Soothe plugin. Which, let's see what they call their plugin. Soothe plugin, what do they call it? It's a dynamic resonance suppressor. Very nice. So same price as Gulfos, they're clearly in competition with each other. But it's a similar kind of thing where it's gonna try and reduce the resonance in areas that are too much. They're like, "Ech!" It's gonna try and reduce those without reducing the other areas. So I'm just actually gonna put this all the way to technically doing nothing. And let's take a listen in real time with it not focusing on any specific frequency region, what it would sound like as we start to tame some of those resonances. So as we bring this up, you're going to start to see it moving here. So again, very transparent. We turn it off. If we put bypass and delta on, this right now is just hearing what's being removed. So that is that kind of like icky high end. If we bring the selectivity up, now it's going to focus a little bit more. Bring the sharpness up, I'm going to bring delta back down again. So it's subtle, you know, it really is subtle hearing how it's taking this All of this is being removed. So there's a couple of areas here as well. Gulfoss isn't on anymore. So I'm hearing that around the base area, particularly when Gulfoss was on, it was dipping it quite a lot around like the 100 range. So why don't we try and create a band here that's going to focus on that area. So you can see here I'm going to start to increase how much it's affecting that frequency range. Let's bypass it. Maybe we want to increase it around the mids. And you can really go pretty wild with it. So we've also got hard mode here. I'm going to bring this back. In fact, I liked what we had these on as a setting, so I'm just going to duplicate this for now. And in this second one, we are going to just make sure that these are both closed. In the second one, I'm just going to show you what the hard mode does. It's a lot more extreme. Let's just put these back to nothing for now. On hard mode, you're going to see that it really starts to change the sound. If we listen to what it's removing, almost all of the music. But if we take these little parts... Maybe we'll bring both on. Really starting to tidy things up and if we bring up our total balance control we can see that with golf us on now We can start to dial these settings back a bit Let's put this in here too I can start to bring these back a little bit I think. So now we've got one more as well which is made by the same people who make Soothe and it is called Spith. And let's turn off all of the others for now and let's just take a quick listen to what this is doing. So this is kind of like Soothe but instead of being An intelligent EQ that tames resonances. This works on the dynamics. So on boost mode you can... it's basically like a multiband compressor. And then on cut it's basically like a... maybe also a multiband compressor that's actually removing the punch. So actually let's try cut first. We're gonna take a listen. These are just on default settings. As I start to increase this you can see that it's actually starting to remove... It's removing a lot of that punch from the track. We bring the delta on. This is what it's removing. And of course we could increase the amount that the low end is being removed. We can increase the sensitivity and the sharpness. So this is a nice way when you're actually dealing with sounds in a mix. Like say for example, we'll actually have a look when we go to the individual layers. Say for example you want to get a clap to sit better in the mix. One of the nicest ways to do that is by... Just removing the unnecessary click with this setup. But let's go now to boost mode because this is also really helpful. Let's just move this. So boost mode is just the opposite, it's like a compressor and it's going to start to increase the punch. And this is allowing us to really target specifically frequencies like... Let's listen to what we're adding. So nice, this used in combination with some of the other guys. In fact, let's just turn this on and have a look to see what SPIF would then feel like in this case. Nice. So let's just bring the volume out a little bit to match it. I'm bringing the stereo link down a bit so it's behaving differently on both the left and the right. Okay, so now why don't we just check to see... I'm gonna mute this for a second so we can see it's coming in... let's turn this down a little bit. Actually, maybe we want to do it after the fact because we have just done a bunch of things. Okay so this is coming in at minus six-ish nice and then let's see what it's coming in at with this off this is now coming in at minus eight minus seven. So we also want to add to this a little utility here that's just going to turn this up so this is minus eight this is... I'll just turn it off and on this way. Okay, that's not the right key that we want. I'm just gonna turn these off. What I want to do is just to demonstrate to you the difference between the two sounds. So the way that I'm gonna do that is just use this and this. So when this is on... This needs to be the other way. Okay, cool. We actually just need to go down one. Okay, lovely. So what we're now listening to is the track with no effect. So this is as it comes through the AI. It's just what we would be hearing if we did very little to it. So let's just listen turning this plug-in chain on entirely all at once and we'll see how this changes the overall sound. And again, we're not probably going to be doing this all the time on just a single track, but if you are to, because you want to work with this to then sample it, it makes sense to do a little bit of cleaning up. And then just bounce it. Like bounce this in place, freeze and flatten. Just getting hydrated. And what I'm going to do is actually just take these guys here. And I want to just freeze and flatten them both. So this is going to give us the unedited version and this is going to be the edited version. Let's just see if there is any difference between them that is like painfully obvious. Let's close up the browser. Let's take a listen. So this is fixed, should we say, and this is raw. I'm going to set a key to be able to just bounce back and forth between them and let's see. So... Cool. So, I mean, it goes without saying that it's definitely a marked improvement to the overall balance. And we're not trying to be super extreme here, you know, like I just want to say that. We are trying to be subtle and transparent to not change the music too much. However, what's kind of cool is to think about if you're going to split those stems, does it find it easier to split those stems if you've gone ahead and do a little bit of... I suppose like pre-work in cleaning that sound up. So what I've done is I've taken this raw version and I've also taken a little version I did before of this kind of fixed sound and I exported both of them as audio. Let's make this a different color. I was trying to hide it so you couldn't see it. Here's one and then here is the other stem fixed. And what I did was I put them both through my little terminal command thing. And in the first one, the only reason I'm missing this on both of them, actually I should remove this from here as well, for some reason there's a little bit of ugly hiss. And so I've just got rid of that ugly hiss for now. But we have these two sets of stems and I want to show you now, let's first just turn these off to... Cool, okay. So unfortunately it's not keeping my colors because of the special naming convention. What we're going to do now is have a listen to the stems when they were split on the raw signal compared to the stems on the fixed signal. And so we can actually just take this out of this group now. I've got a button to jump back and forth. So here are the stems when they were exported from a raw audio. So putting the piece of AI sound directly in as is. I mean how muddy does this plain one sound compared to... I mean even the music. It did a lot better job at then isolating it. So let's compare say like the bass for example. That bass obviously is still wonky as fuck, but it sounds so much clearer. Here's the guitar. Dark and muddy. And the split was so much better after having first processed that sound. Then we've got this little intro piano bit. It didn't even capture that. That's very interesting, is by adjusting this, it's actually taken what was split between two channels and it's actually put that. Wow, I'm actually really impressed with that. This is a key difference, is that on this one, by the separation happening ahead of time, it's actually adjusted all of that piano to be on one stem compared to... Wow, okay. I mean, I hadn't even noticed that. That's really, really cool. Obviously, there is no vocal in here. But then one other thing I just want to show you is that if we skip back and forth between these two as they were, again, let's turn one of them off. Let's just listen to the drums. And then let's listen to the drums in the clean one. It's very bright, obviously. Still sounds good. I'm just gonna solo the drums and we only have the drums on in this one and in this one and let's see you guys can be on everything else can be off okay cool so let's listen to the drums in the plain version and then let's bring in the fixed drums It's definitely cleaner, you know, there's just like a lot of clarity. There's a little bit more sharpness that's come through, but I just want to show you now how we could go about improving these drums further. So let's go back to our fixed drums and slowly but surely I'm going to bring on each of these sounds. And in fact, maybe we'll just turn it on real quick so that you can hear the difference. This is as the drums were and then once we get to about here, I'm going to I'm gonna press the slash key and it's gonna shift us over. So jumping back and forth between there. Back to the raw. So we've managed to remove some of those kind of icky high ends. So I'm just going to demonstrate this by adding each thing on one by one as why I would have done it. So first and foremost we had this kick and let's listen to it. This kick had a lot of irritating low end that I got rid of and I also got rid of a little bit of that mid. Boosted a tiny bit in the top because I then actually added this after the fact. I started with this and then I put soothe on to remove and tame some of that super low. Then we went into spiff and then spiff added this incredible kick b52 mode let's just bypass this I mean how crazy is that it's like created a room and then I decided after these two I just wanted to remove a little bit of the low end and maybe go into the mids even a little bit softer and we ended up with this. So turning this on and off altogether. That's just like a horrible AI kick sound. That sounds like a real kick drum that's been recorded. And one thing maybe we even want to do here as well is I'm just going to bring a tiny bit more on the top. We could of course go in and actually chop these pieces. I haven't done any of that like we've been doing in the previous lessons. These are just raw stems. So if we were to go in there and adjust and edit and If I couldn't remove those pieces, it would sound even better, obviously. Let's have a look at the hats now. So the hats, I kind of went a bit extreme on this, but if we turn all of these pieces off, the first thing I did was just remove a lot of that crap that was below here, because there is surprisingly quite a lot of these little rumble and mid pieces. I then went into Soothe, and Soothe I used the matte symbol mode to basically just smooth out that high end a little bit. Then we went into Gullfoss. The point of Gullfoss was just to really bring down that offending high end. It's kind of brought up some of those nice mids as well. Maybe we'll actually put this after Gullfoss. Maybe even after this. So let's now try Spiff. Spiff I'm then removing some of that intensity. Let's bring this down a touch. I went a bit extreme with that. Let's compare the two. So this is subtler, tighter, a bit more controlled. Then let's listen to the snare clap. Obviously none of these things sound particularly good listening on their own. So this one I added soothe just to tame some of these parts, these bits. Then we've got spiff. Spiff is just reducing the punch in that low end. Kind of like an EQ in that sense. Then we go into Orion, which is a plug-in I really like. Although I'm not actually sure why we're using this exactly, other than it's just like a nice good eriser. It's by the people who made God Particle, but it's specifically for drum buses. This is just now like tightening everything up that we've done so far. Then we go into Gullfoss, which is just giving us a little bit of mids. And if we were to turn this on and off as it is now. This is thin and tinny. This has got a nice bit more of those mids. And it's just a bit more consistent, just coming through nicer. And then we've got a little AI toolbox. Just basically adding a small amount of noise. Which is just adding that really lovely texture. I'm a big fan of having that little bit extra noise to basically make the kick come through a bit. And then finally we've got the toms. I'm gonna turn these on all one by one. So the toms sounded... let's just maybe solo this. We would probably want to actually go in if we were working on this and do something to some of that horrible digital top. But if we turn on the sooth, the first thing I'm doing is just slightly demudding the bass. This is a nice preset for bass called demud. Then we've got this spiff and this tom large does quite a nice little effect. It definitely adds some of that low end that we've cleaned up. Now it punches it back again. So... It's just giving it that nice little bit of punch. Now there's one other thing that we haven't really looked at which is a clipper. I'm gonna... We looked at how the clipper worked on my AI toolbox but this is something maybe we should explore a little bit more. is I'm able to remove all of the signal. Everything is being deleted. If I do it at zero, nothing is being deleted. Everything that you see that is red is being removed from the signal. Not in the sense that you would, you know, conventionally think a compressor or a limiter might work. This is actually removing the sound. So as I start to bring it down, you're going to start to hear that kind of degradation sound. But what's interesting is any of these sharp peaks, you can actually I remove quite a lot of a transient without it changing at all. So do you see how we're removing a lot of that red? If I turn this off, does it really sound any different? No it doesn't, at least not to my ears. And one of the crazy things about this now is if we look here with standard clip, this clipper turned off, we're coming in at -0.53. However as soon as I turn this on, We're now coming in at -5 and the overall volume difference, like it's imperceptible. We can't really hear that it's any quieter, but it's actually 5dBs quieter. A little more than 5dBs. So what's actually happening here is all it's removing is the "k" like the short, stabby, sharp part before the actual sound. And I can show you exactly what it is that we're losing by doing this. I'm going to put this in a chain and then I'm going to add an empty chain. And in this empty chain I'm gonna invert the phase. So basically it's just gonna remove from what we're hearing everything that is the same. So with this on, as soon as I turn this speaker on we're only gonna hear the red. That's all that's being removed and if I start to bring this down further there's the full sound. That's everything that's been removed. And like the way that this is working by the way is I'm just inverting the phase. This is just a cool way to show what the difference is. But yeah, so the goal here isn't to make the sound distorted. It's just to see how much can I actually remove... ...without the sound really changing... In this case, look at that. We're coming in at minor 0.53 and I've managed to remove... 9 dBs of volume. And like, what is actually missing? Just that. So with a lot of these AI sounds, particularly drums, and particularly drums that have then been separated, there tends to be this like, over-emphasis on transients. And I find this is the case a lot of the time with these AI tracks, is that they're very punchy. They sound like they've got like a real fucking attack on most of the drums. And so a lot of the time you can fix that problem not by compressing because compressing won't actually solve your issue. It will just you know squeeze those dynamics even further. We just remove the offending parts. We remove those transients that are too much. So in this case let's turn this back off again. We can now hear that on those toms I've managed to regain nine dBs of volume. Okay cool. After our standard clip let's just take this We don't need any of this little fun thing anymore. Then I went into Gulfoss and Gulfoss just did a little bit of the same. It brought up some of those mids, brought down some of the tops, and then I put an EQ on the end basically just to probably want to roll off that low end as well just to roll off some of that digital top. And actually to be honest with you what might be quite nice now is to take erosion and erosion is actually part of my AI toolbox. This is what the noise thing is but it's nice to actually be able to see it. Let's just take noise here and I'm just going to try and find... wide noise is stereo. There we go. So let's compare this chain being on versus off. We've got our kick, clap, whatever. Let's just solo this. This is as it sounded before with nothing on. And then we're able to... Maybe on the hats we'd like to actually remove a little bit less of that top end. Maybe we'll use the brightness. So there we go, that's our fixed version with no effects on them and maybe we also want to actually compare this to the original. So let's turn this off and we're going to jump back and forth between the plain drums. Let's take a listen. Now let's listen to our updated version. Do you hear the presence that's coming through? And now I'm going to turn on all of the effects that I just did before and let's compare between the OG version and... Do you hear the power and the difference of this? Okay, it really is rather remarkable. I'm actually just going to save this and call this... "refinement" demo. Refinesment. And let's go back to our other project because I really want to dive in now to see how we can use some of these things perhaps on our track in question. So, you know, with this kick, this sounds good, but why don't we try taking, say, "soothe" and I'm going to take this nice preset here, which is the kick reso, and I'm just going to increase and decrease until we just get like a nice Nice, I like that slight bit less punch, that slight bit less low end coming through. Now I want to take Spiff and I'm gonna take our kick B52. I really love using this one. So now compare the two of these and even better, let's now actually put these guys inside of here. Let's compare the difference with all of our effects on the kick versus what it would have sounded like directly from the AI. Terrible! Terrible, mate. Now all of a sudden we've got a really lovely kick drum. Okay, let's have a look at the hats now because I know that we've done some things in here but maybe we could just take the overall hat group and we'll solo this and take a listen to what we've got so far. Why don't we take Soothe and I'm just going to really maybe use the hard mode to remove some of these parts. Let's turn this on and off. Just finding that sweet spot. Okay, I like what that's doing. Maybe we'll bring it off a little bit. Lovely. Okay, now let's take our good friend Spiff, and I'm going to use Spiff on here to just dial down... reduce punch... the punch... Cool. Let's add this to our special on and off "off" key. This needs to actually be off. Okay, nice. We've done that with our hats. Is there anything else that we'd like to do to the hats while we're here? Maybe we could try taking "golf off" and seeing if it's going to shave off a little bit even further off that high end. There we go. We could probably bring the overall volume of all of this now up just a touch. What have I done? Hopefully nothing... Nothing silly. Let's just save this as a new version. What am I doing? V2. I'm gonna bring the volume up a little bit on here just to compensate for what we've lost. Very nice. Okay, now let's jump on to the Nox. What is this channel? This is a prime example of where I'd actually like to go in here, and we're gonna use our good friend Standard Clip before we do anything else, because we're gonna see some of these are really sharp, that could be definitely brought down a bit. Sometimes you might want to visualize this easier. So what I tend to do is I'll take a utility 4 and I'll do plus 10 and minus 10. I know we could increase the gain here but it doesn't seem to satisfy me quite as much as doing it like this. So all this is doing is now making the overall view a bit bigger if we make this minus 15 and make this plus 15. Now we're actually able to have like far smaller movements. So it seems as though that little thing needs to come down a bit. Might even pan it a bit. Cool. Now let's also take our good friend, Soothe. And you know you don't need to do this on every single one of them, but I like to see, I like to compare, you know, what is it that I could do with some of these. We'll try and perku mid-frequency. Let's delta it. Just removing that. Maybe we'll take spiff and we'll use spiff to maybe boost. Like around the knock range which is going to be 1k. Nice, now it's making a little punchier in a way that feels better. And also check this out. So if I were to take an oscilloscope right now, which I could actually do with ShaperBox, if we take this oscilloscope, I'm going to show you what's happening before and after having standard clip on. You're gonna see all of a sudden... The actual... I'm trying to point at the screen as if you can see and you're in the room with me, but... Like here... These sounds are just shaving off and they're becoming a little bit smaller. So we're having a little bit more of a balance there. And then with SPF as well... So let's compare the difference with and without... So this is with nothing. Let's use our special key to turn this on and off. Nice. Are we on the right channel here? Yeah, we are. Okay. Cool. So we've just tamed that quite a lot, just made it a little nicer. Actually, what is the volume difference? Cool, you can hear. So we've just again removed some of that like ugly high end. Now let's go to this percussion group. This is probably a really good one to take something like "Sue" straight off the bat. We really need to roll off that low end. What about hard mode? We will try taking Gulfoss as well for this one. Let's put this in here. What is this? Oh, this is the sidechain compressor. We don't really need that. Cool. I'm actually going to get rid of these two. We're going to use that. Cool. So let's take just we'll do the snare and we'll do the toms and then we'll move on from there. This one I want to take I also want to take standard clip because the transients on that are likely to be pretty high. Let's take a look. Nice. Okay, we'll use spiff. So let's compare the difference between clipping... and let's use ShaperBox as a visualizer because of the fact that this is actually one of those prime examples where if we look at the knock... what we're just doing is shaving that top off. So if we shave this down even further then we go in here... Maybe we'll boost a little bit in the high. Just adding a nice bit of punch. Cool. Let's make sure that this turns off with our special key. And it should be off right now, which it is not. And then finally our toms. Now this is going to be an interesting one. Let's take maybe Gullfoss first. Ooh, I'm hearing that we need some standard clip-on here for sure. Cool, let's use this to maybe bring down the brightness a bit. Let's take Soothe. Let's take spiff as well because I want to maybe just cut. I'll bring the mix down. Okay let's put these all together in one group. Oh maybe we want to turn off ShaperBox for this. So nice, just removing the unnecessaries of this. Let's open up spiff a bit as well. Maybe we don't want to remove as much. Cool. Let's now compare the difference with this on and off. Where this is nothing. Now we've just tidied it up a little bit, but of course we need to listen to this in the context of of the actual track. So now that all of these have some amount of stuff on them, I want to actually now go in and have a look to see, to make sure with all of these now playing together in solo. Let's just put these in a group called drums. What does it sound like before? So this is the before. This is everything exactly as it would be just chopped up, used as AI. Let's take a listen. Let's solo just the drums. And here we go. There's that horrible AI high-pitched sound. And then one more time we're going to go back to the original unedited sound. That horrible high end. So one final thing why don't we take the the drums and I'm going to put Gullfoss on the actual drum group now we'll do a little bit more taming. Very nice now we'll also take Soothe why not we can now we've already bought it. Let's go ahead drums there's one here called Where is it? Perku mid-frequency. No, it's not these. Maybe it's under mastering. There's one about dynamics. Let's see. Maybe we'll just go less mud on the master. We'll try this one. I mean, at this point, I don't really know. Why don't we take spiff now? Because there's a really nice one in here called drum bus. Add punch to drum bus. There's two of these modes. One of these is going to be perfect. One will be too much. So let's take a listen. And bring it in. Maybe we can bring the kick down a couple of dBs. Cool. So let's now also put these into our special group So that we can hear the difference. And I want to see what does our drum track sound like. Fully AI. And then we're going to go in to having all of this cool stuff in three, two, one. Really nice. Okay. Let's put this on. Why don't we take our good friend Soothe, and Soothe in this particular mode, which is bass, demudding the bass. This is such a game changer, this piece. Probably don't need to be as extreme there, Lex. We probably also want to take maybe Spiff, which has a very nice bass mode here as well called... Is it the Acoustic Bass Mid-Knock I'm thinking of? That sounds nice. Let's bring this on and off at the same time. Let's turn this off and let us again compare. Oh wait what is going on here? You need to be on. Okay let's solo the bass and the drums. This is the before. Really nice. Now let's go to the music channel. I'm actually just going to do this as a group itself. So let's just take this. I'm going to take Soothe before anything else and I'm just going to crank this up. Let's listen to what's being removed. Removing all of that ugliness. Then why don't we turn off obviously this. Let's take Gulfos now. I'm gonna put that after everything else. So this is what the piece of music would sound like without any of these effects on. And then we go... All dark and dull. Now just for good measure, I'm gonna also add here spiff, because I do just want to cut some of the transients on this. Really nice. Make sure that this is turned on when it should be. Okay, cool. We're just going to move on to the vocals now. And we're going to use... Again, it would be probably a much better idea to go in there and do these manually. Which is that really loud vocal? Is it this one? It sure is. So let's take this vocal channel. Maybe we can even just go in here and see if they've got any vocals. We'll do harsh vocal. We need to turn off that silly thing. What is this one? Okay, we'll maybe bring a little bit of that high end back in. And then I'm just going to take the God Particle on here as well because this does some really nice stuff with vocal. We're going to boost a little bit of the mids. So let's compare the vocal channel before and after. There's that sharpness. Maybe we'll even take this glue compressor. Okay, now let's just AV here. There's that. And here we go. Very nice. So now we get the joy of making sure that everything is turned on on every channel. Let us now compare. And also just for good measure, why don't we put on the master channel, we've already got the god particle. I told you that we would use Gullfoss Master. Gullfoss Master is just a game changer just for good measure. I'm going to bring the volume down so we're not actually hearing it and I'm going to make it so that god particle and Gullfoss Master everything is off. So let's turn these off in a group as well and I'm just going to make sure that... I guess this is coming in. This is gonna be... oh yeah, I've got to turn this off I guess. So this is everything completely dry. And I'm gonna put a limiter that turns on and off at the same time. This is just gonna allow us to like A, B. Yeah, okay, here we go. So moment of truth. to the completely dry, unedited, fun version with this off and this on. And then in theory we should be able to listen to it afterwards. So here we go. Dry. This is just pure AI sound. Now let's listen to it with our updated version and let's just give a little listen to the beginning again. Now here we go. It was bringing that clap back a bit. Just bringing the clap back a bit in time. And then let's bring it back to the dry version. Kinda ugly. Now we'll go to the nice version. And if we look here, we've got a great mix. One final thing that I might do is just push our drums through this good friend of mine Orion and maybe leave this as is just to get that final little sweet spot of the drums. This is of course dry. And here we go. So I actually want to do a little taste test, so to speak. I'm going to do a little export just to see the difference between these guys. And while we do that, I just want to say... Oh, I'll go one... I will say this... Dry... I just want to say that I hope that you are thrilled, you are deeply excited at the prospects and possibilities of what is available with AI and music as we move into this new realm of existence. I mean it truly is a very exciting time to be alive. Let's bounce this one as well and we'll call this... Effects. And this is going to be probably slightly longer to export because of that. But there are a lot of great plugins that you could absolutely go and buy and you could use every single one of the latest and greatest and intelligent AI plugins. But to be honest with you, you can get a hell of a lot done just with an EQ. Like we were looking at in the first part of... actually in the drum module, we were looking at how we could refine these sounds with stock plugins. And quite a lot of them... quite a lot of the techniques we've looked at today, you could absolutely not spend another dollar and still get great results. But I did just want to give you a brief demonstration of how I tend to use a lot of these plugins. to get what feels like to me really great professional sounding results. And I do also now just want to have a look to see what the audio files look like when we compare them, because we've got here the effects version and the dry version. And if I bring them in, and let's turn warp off for both of them, does it look in any way different? Let's have a little look-see here. Let's close this up maybe. Bring this one down and then let's see. I mean no, it doesn't look massively different. If anything, we've got some amount more... Oh, maybe we also need to bring the start and end point back to be perfectly on the grid. Do we have really any difference? Yeah, I mean I can see here that actually one of the things that's quite clear is that these sharp peaks, these sharp spikes, in the dry version, many of them have been fixed, many of them have been shaved off, and that's thanks to our good friend the Clipper. But just, you know, skipping back and forth between these, let's do it one more time now that we know what's going on here. The turn off God particle, because we've technically done a master already. But yeah, let's just take a quick listen again to the dry version. Again compare these. It's crazy. And there we go. That is advanced processing. So I know this has been a pretty long video, but I want you to now
