Okay, so if you've been following along with the course up until now, you should have a finished 16-bar loop, something fun that you have created, and it should now be exported and in a place that we can easily reach for it. We're actually going to go back to Oudio now, because I want to show you something super powerful that you may or may not have already considered that you could do, which is to go to the Create interface, and we're going to click Upload Audio, and then we're going to find the piece of audio that we've just created. We own the rights to this, understand. And first I'm going to select Remix. And this is going to be pretty cool. Take a second to upload and when it is ready to rock and roll in three, two, one. There we go. Here is our track. And we can now create variations of it. Much like when we were trying the Remix feature earlier on. Let's just move this over here. Much like when we were using the Remix earlier on with things that we generated in there, we can actually upload So by default what would happen if we just leave it at 50% variation and I just say house? Because of the fact that it's already a house track it's probably going to give us just a sort of variation within the same realm. So let's take a listen to what we get with a 50% variant house generation. I've also got it on custom here it's not asking for any vocals we're not adding anything in there we're just leaving it exactly as is of course our preferences have got it set so it's on manual mode we've got it at fastest and let's see what we get this should be done any moment now i'm going to take a moment to just hydrate myself delish so let's take a quick listen to what we had originally and here's what we've been given pretty bad And this is where playing around with the actual prompt that we use in the variant setting will really help. So because we already have a house track what I find to be more interesting is to use something that actually steers it a little further away from... Oh, have we already bloody just lost our upload? I've got to do it again I guess. We'll do upload audio and do it again. But what I want to do is to pick a prompt that is slightly further away from what we've already got. This is uploaded again. I'm gonna put in say, let's try, um, let's listen to the track again. Could be cool to try something maybe bossa nova. So I'm gonna do bossa nova. I'm gonna do soft jazz. I'm gonna do, what else we got here? Latin. We'll do Latin jazz. Maybe samba jazz. Maybe just samba. We'll do Brazilian. And if I were to do 50%, we're gonna, it's gonna be quite a lot different. It's not fully different obviously, but what we can do is we can scale back the amount of the variation. As you start getting to kind of in between 0 and 50% here, it's going to reinterpret our music through the lens of this prompt, but it's going to stick a little bit closer to what we originally had. So let's try that first. We have, what, a 28% variation with the bossa nova soft jazz. Let's also, out of interest, try one where we go even less different, so we'll do 20%. And... We shall leave it as is. It's on auto-generate. And we should get something pretty soon to listen to. And in the meantime, why don't we just queue up another prompt. I'm going to do one here. I'm going to say soulful. I'm going to say soul. Say gospel. Let's say maybe deep soul. Maybe we'll do black gospel. Fair enough. We'll do religious. Soul R&B. And we'll generate a few variations at like 27% with that. So this is what we had. Let's see what the boss and over prompt at 28% is. And you can see what's super cool is those vocals that we had in the second half, part of it actually became... It actually became like an organ or something. Here's another variation. The key is of course this middle moment. Very nice. Let's try it. These were 20% different. So these are actually even closer to the original but with those variations. All sorts of cool elements in there. Very nice. Let's try out the soulful, soul gospel one. Huh. Why don't we also try something a little wilder? I've got something... Let's do a spaghetti western soundtrack. We'll do one more. Ooh! One of the things that I think you'll notice as well is how nicely it's fused our bassline and the kick into a new pattern that I think almost feels better than my bassline. And so what we can obviously now do is download these tracks and make stems out of them as well and take just the parts that we like. Maybe we'll push it a little further away as well. Ha! It's so good! Oh, we've got a kind of banjo in there. Oh! Let's listen to this one as well. I mean, those bass lines it's come up with are just amazing. Oh, it's definitely got a little hint of that Spaghetti Western kind of like ocarina-y sound in the background. These ones were obviously closer to 50%. God knows what this one's gonna end up doing. And we got one more here. Ooh! It's added in almost a little vocal. Let's try even further away. This one's added a funny flute. Let's try another prompt as well. Very, very cool. I've just tried one more here again with a sort of more atmospheric down tempo. For some reason it says we've got an error here. Let's try then the 50% spaghetti western. I just found a little trumpet. Very cool bassline. I'm excited to see what the drop is on this one. Let's try this again. For some reason, it thought what I've said was going against its rules of guidelines. This is more of a blues rock one, so maybe we're going to get a little bit more kind of this desert swampy atmosphere feeling coming through. Let's also do one with this as well. I'm maybe going to get rid of the actual chords that I've got in there. We'll do hard rock, easy listening. And then just for good measure we'll do one more where we go in here and maybe we'll take something really far away. So soft, we'll do soft quiet roads and we'll just see what like something that's really quite far away from the original gives us. And also maybe we'll do "Ve-Ve-R-Ve-R-E-R-Y-Cool" Let's listen to the other blues one: Kind of a weird whistle there. Not really into that one. Here's 1970s progressive rock. A bit more kind of funky. This one's cool. Now we've got the soft, quiet roads ones. A lot of cool little vocals that we can sniff out of there. Very nice. We'll go through a couple more. Cool, and then we'll just listen to our last two world music ones. So this is now added in some more kind of ritualistic sounding drums. I don't know what language that is. French, I guess. And the final one. Really nice percussion and bass. Very nice, a lot of cool sounds in here. So before we move on to the next piece, I just want to show you one more little suggestion here is if you find one you like, so for example... I really like this one, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to go here and search for "Create Copy Prompt", I'm going to put it back in again, And then I'm also going to open this up. I'm going to click here and then I'm going to go create copy seed. Because now if I go down here I can actually paste in what the seed was. If I were to generate it again we're going to get exactly the same result. But if I bring the variance down a little bit again, get it back just a little bit closer to the original, we're going to see what the implication is on using the same prompt. Oh come on, what's going on here? Error? Yeah, using the same prompt and the same seed but slightly variation. So bearing in mind this is the one we're comparing it to. Cool! So let's see, embrace... is this gonna be the one? Yeah, so here's that track but a little closer to the original. Maybe let's do another one even closer. Sometimes it loses its mind a bit It's kind of a weird, I don't know, is that Dorian or... Very strange and here's the other variation which I guess was this one And then finally here is our track at 20%. Here it is. So of course if you create a variation that you like but you want it to be a little bit more like your original You can then just change, do a new one with the same seed, same prompt and adjust the variation. Or if you want to push it a little further away you could go a little in the opposite direction. So I want you to pause the video now and upload your track if you haven't already and then experiment for maybe 5-10 minutes with coming up with some interesting variations of that track. You could try exploring what happens if you do say a 75% variation with a prompt that is quite similar to what you've already got. doing a very similar one with a wildly different prompt. You could put in like Death Metal or something and see what comes out. Actually, that's probably something that could be kind of fun for us to have a look at afterwards. I'm just going to put that in there. But yeah, in the meantime, pause this video and I want you to go in and experiment with remixing your track and I shall see you shortly. Okay, you should have come up with a bunch of very cool remix variations there. At the end of the last section, I thought it might be quite funny to see what this would sound like. as a death metal track. So let's just take a quick listen. Again, this is what it's coming from. "Gadir, the whispers of the dead, shadows bloom, they're red, they're thrall forth by a path of despair, in battle..." _Demonic music_ Really, really off. I don't wish that on my worst enemy. But what we are now going to do is take a slightly different approach. So I hope that you've enjoyed playing around with creating those variations. But what we're gonna do instead is unfortunately you can't just easily adjust this anymore as far as I understand we're just gonna click reset and now we're gonna upload audio again and may take a second upload audio select it nice and I'm gonna say instead of remix that I want to extend and this is gonna be kind of cool because obviously we don't have well we do have some vocals in here but they're not really very vocally so what I want to do now is to add We're going to add a section after this and we're going to make sure that we either have it on auto generate or we're going to do custom. For now I'm going to do custom and I'm going to say in fact let's just get it to write something for us and see if we can adjust this. No we absolutely don't want that. That looks terrible. We'll do verse. We'll say I am on fire. Look at me. I'm burning. "So hot, I am on fire, someone put me out. Call 911." Okay we're going to see what this ends up coming out with and then we're just going to put as a little chorus we'll say "Fire, fire, I am on fire." And we'll do "Fire" and do maybe "Fire" like this and then we'll say "Fire, fire, I'm on fire." We'll just do it a couple of times so there we go. What we're going to do now is pop in here some form of prompt that we like the idea of. I kind of enjoyed some of the variations. Which ones are we listening to? I thought this was kind of cool. So let's see what happens if we use the prompt from this. We're going to see what happens if we get a variation continuing on from there. So let's just make sure that all of our settings are correct and let's click extend. We're taking something that we already liked and we're asking for it to take those 32 seconds and add another 32 seconds after the fact. And these 32 seconds will have, ideally, vocals. While we're at it, maybe we'll do two of these spaghetti western ones. Maybe we'll also scroll down here and we'll take another slightly different prompt. So we'll do... It's so irritating that it does that. We'll just copy the prompt. We're going to extend again. We'll do two of those. And let us see if we have anything to listen to. Okay, so here is our first variation, or first extension. And obviously the thing about this is it's gonna, in theory, keep using the sound that we've already got in the track. So as we get to underneath the pause sign, it's gonna shift into a spaghetti western extension with vocals about being on fire. Here we go. with the up level of that chorus moment. Definitely a horrible vocalist would not use that but it definitely gave me a little giggle. I was bouncing around in my seat. Let's take a listen to the other option. Here we go. Okay completely out of key forget that. Let's go with another one. So interesting that that one didn't actually keep the vocals in, but I like the synth that it added. It's very cool. I would actually take just that as a snippet and maybe we'll mix that into the track. We've got a couple more to listen to. This is another Spaghetti Western one. Very silly and that's really pushed it far into that direction. Now let's just try these two which are again it's going to probably give me slightly closer to the original vibe. I mean definitely more in the realm of being usable. I am on fire. Look at me I'm burning. Ooh so hot. I am on fire. Okay cool so you get the idea this is a great way of being able to extend things on. We don't necessarily also need to keep vocals in we could do instrumental. Let's try this let's do one more as well. I've actually in the meantime just done an auto generated one to see what it comes up with for vocals on its own. Sol and Arby. Let's just get rid of that. We'll do roads, we'll do keyboard, do electric keys, and we'll just do one. This is going to be an instrumental, adding a section. So let's try this with it fully deciding on its own vocals. Maybe it's not even going to add vocals. I guess it decided it didn't need them. When the night falls, my shadows draw near. I'd love my hands high, knowing you are near. In every heartbeat, in every tip I find. Your love of fear, it turned kind. I like that bit. Got my soul, gonna carry me home. To the stormy water, I'm never alone. So yeah, you get the idea. Very fun. Can be one of those things that you sit around, give it 20-30 minutes to figure out something cool and then download it. Let's just take a quick listen to these instrumental continuations. Doesn't seem too different. Oh, that's kind of cool. So I want you to pause the video now and go ahead and experiment with using the extension feature to add some either instrumental, some auto-generated or some custom sections. No need to play around with trying to get anything perfect, but come up with two or three extensions that show you how it feels to end up with something else to use. And I shall see you shortly. Hope it goes well. Cool. I hope that the extensions ended up being better than some of these that I've created. And of course what this now means is that we need to do something with these pieces of audio. So I'm going to actually go back and see of these remixes, more so than the extensions, I think I'm more interested in the remixes here. Also just because it means that I can download it and it's already 32 seconds, I can slot it in, you're going to see how nice it is, how easy it is to just slot it in. We're gonna go ahead and then use these remixes to add extra parts to the track. Obviously if we did the extension we would end up with the 32 bars. 32 seconds and then the 32 seconds afterwards. So for now I'm just gonna go ahead and find some of these that could be cool to work with. So... Which were the ones that were cool? That one was cool. I like that one a lot. Very cool. Let's pick one more as well. So I'm just going to click this. You may or may not be able to do this on your plan that you're with on Udio, but I can. And what I'm just going to do is I'm going to highlight a bunch of these. I'm going to click download to download these as WAVs. That's going to download all six of them. If you're not on the $30 a month plan, what a stupid thing to gatekeep from people. But you have to go in and manually download them all. So I'm just going ahead and bulk downloading these six tracks. And I'm going to take this moment here to just suggest you do the same. So download, say, three or four or five or six, however many you want. I'm going for six so that we definitely have a lot of options to play with. Download them as stems if it's your desire to do so through Udio, or otherwise download them through WAVs, and I'll see you shortly. Cool. So I've gone ahead and downloaded all six of those tracks. I'm just gonna unpack the folder, and I'm gonna use my setup here to just generate some stems for these guys. I'm gonna do Yes. I'm going to do four stems. I don't think... and I'm also not going to split drums. Or maybe I will. Maybe I will. Yeah, I'm going to do that. I don't need a separate guitar and piano and all that. I just want other. I want the entire music stem itself. So we'll let that operate in the background. In the meantime, I'm just going to go in here and make sure that everything is nice and ready for us to introduce some new elements to it. This shouldn't take too long. Let's go into stems. This is going to appear "embrace the calm". Okay, why don't we just for good measure do a couple others? So I'm going to take this, close that folder up, and we'll do "Eternal Journey" as well. We'll do four, and yes we do want the drums. We've got a lot of folders open here. And we'll do this one next. In the meantime let's just take these out. And what's cool is because of the fact that we did a remix, these are... we don't So we don't need to do anything to line them up. All we do is just make sure that they are not warped and if we now drag the start point back you'll see that everything is bang on the grid or as close to as as possible. As close to as we would expect it to be. Let's just do one more of these. In the meantime we'll do legends unfold. I feel like that might have been the kind of cowboy one. So just make sure that all of these clips end at the same time. Cool. So let's just loop this beginning bit and I'm going to put this in a group and call this track one. I'm going to get rid of the full track. Don't need it in there. I'll also get rid of the drums. Don't need that in there. We'll call this track one. And we've got another one in here which is the eternal journey. Let's just also do searching for grace. So we'll say yes we would like to. Searching for grace. and a yes. And we'll go in and bring these guys. Again just super easy. I guess we just don't need the drums, don't need the full track. Just drag it in as such. Make sure that all of these guys have their wharp off. And we're going to put them in a group. Call this track two. Very nice. Now we'll take this track three. We'll do the same thing. So in this case I guess Eternal Journey. Oh there we go. Now we need this guy. So we'll do I guess we didn't do Legends Unfold. So we'll do Bass, Other Vocals, Hats, Cat Kick, Tom's Snare Clap. We'll just do that like this. And I'll probably just leave it at that. We don't need any of the other elements. We're just getting excessive at that point. So track three. And now finally we've got Searching for Grace, which probably was a kind of more disco-y one. So other vocals, hats, kicks, snare clap, and toms. I'm just going to do this. Finally let's just turn off the warping and I'm going to put this in group and do... go away. What have I done? Track 4. Okay nice. So before we continue on I just want you to pause this video now and take all of the stems that you've downloaded, whether you created those stems using something like RipX or whether you did it with my tool or whatever, Get those stems all in like I've done here and when that's done continue the video and I'll see you shortly. Nice. So you should have a bunch of stems now imported into the track and similar to what we did before but in this case I'm just going to turn them all off. I'm going to turn every channel off inside this first one and I'm going to listen on loop to my actual track and I'm just going to turn on some of these elements to see what adding them would bring. I've got the musical element here. And I'm going to make a new audio clip at the top and I'm just going to cut out the parts that I want. I'm going to move them onto their own channel. So now we've got... Just cutting a little bit like that. This bit's kind of cool, we'll put that there. What about any of these toms, for example? Is this cool? Don't really need it. What about these vocals? Let's take this little snippet, turn it on. What about this bass? I'm gonna get rid of the bass. I feel like it's... I can just see off the bat that it's gonna be using up too much of the low end. And what's kind of cool as well here is actually, let's just bring this back here, is instead of just working on that small loop, one of the things that I like to do is, before I start trying to move these into different positions, is just listen through to it as is with, with say the vocals and the keys in there and just delete everything that I don't like. So... For this bit... I guess it's this... No it's not. Where is... No I guess it's in the original stem, that little chord bit. So let's just listen again. I'm gonna get rid of that. And get rid of that little piece there as well. And actually I can probably take this vocal and just put it into our vocal group now. Because some of these elements are now able to just like shift them in and we're just combining all of these pieces so that we've got music here. What else? Do we need anything from here? Maybe the snare? Not really. I'm going to get rid of those. I don't think that these drums are really adding too much. Maybe we'll do a little test to see what these toms sound like. Quantize. That bit's kind of cool, actually. So... So let's put this toms into the toms group. And we're now able to delete track one. So pause the video and take your first track, do what I've just done, chop out all of the pieces that you like, delete everything else and then shift them into the main groups and I shall see you in a sec. I hope that that sounded awesome. Let's jump into the second track now. I'm going to turn these all off inside. Again, I don't feel like we really need a new bass line, but out of interest what would happen if we mute our old bass line and see what this bass line sounds like under everything else. I'm going to get rid of that. Let's put on the other and let's see what these musical elements sound like from track two. This was that weird one. This one probably could be warped, quantized a little bit, and then had a little bit of tightening. This could be like a cool percussion. Oh, oh, oh, stop it. That is just too much. It's too hot to handle. I'm going to actually put that on the second half of the beat. Let's just chuck this in here, see what it sounds like again. Actually, where was it? It was... I've moved it, I think, to the wrong spot. Let's keep it there, actually. That's probably quite a good place for it. Let's mute this. Let's listen to what these pieces sound like. I forgot that we had our bass off. Get rid of that. I don't think it's super necessary. What about the snare claps in this one? I'm going to keep this little percussion thing. I'm going to put it in the knocky perks group. We'll call this knocks. And I'm going to get rid of track two. So pause the video again, Go through track two, see if there's anything you like, put it into the main group, and I shall see you in a sec. Okay, let's move on to track three. Again, what have we got here? This looks like this could be a nice replacement bass. Let's see what would happen if we turn all of these off. I'm going to switch the old bass with our new bass to see. Let's bring in this musical element. So these parts are very cool. And actually some of these pieces of the bass could actually be... If we put these both in a group called bass and we have a look at them side by side or in fact we just listen to this bass as is in this kind of context and find some of these moments that feel cool so... So this bit... That probably would be cool to just move it up to this layer so even if we had the new bass off I've now just put that slap in so this is with the original Or to make it even easier, let's put that on its own channel so that we can just easily copy and paste this across at relevant positions. This is adding that little slap. Let's go back to the new bass that we've got here and see maybe like this bit could be cool to replace that bit with. So let's listen again with the old bass. parts that I like. Maybe we'll just replace that bit entirely with this. So now we've got... And actually sometimes just getting rid of some of a bass section on like the one This now means that we're coming straight in with a kick but no bass on it. This could actually be kind of cool, particularly if we duplicate this kick. Let's take a listen. Maybe we could replace this bit of bass with that. Maybe we'll put this there. And this end bit... Very, very cool. So now we can delete that section and we've got this nice built up section here. So, was there any musical parts in here actually that were cool? Probably. Let's take a listen. And get rid of that slap bass bit there. Nice! Let's put this musical element in here. This time I'm not going to tell you to stop it because I just want to move on. Now I'm going to take track four and let's just very quickly run through to see if there are any things in here that we can replace as well. What about this bass line? What if we turn off our bass line and see what this feels like? Is there anything in here that just must be had? Okay, get rid of the bass for a sec, we don't really need it. Let's bring the old bass back in. What about this musical? What is this? What is this vocal layer? Let's see... This is cool. Why don't we put that there as well? Obviously this vocal can now go into the vocals group. This should actually be on its own layer because it's a different kind of sound. the vocals back in now. And let's delete everything else that we've got on track four that doesn't need to be kept there. We don't really need any of these drums. Let's get rid of it. Cool. So we are now in a really good position to... I'm just going to make this all the assigned track color. Cool. Okay. I hope you can fathom how awesome this is. This was only one batch of chucking sounds And of course you could go in here and actually cut some of these pieces out. We don't need for it to all be playing at the same time. Let's take a listen. Like this bit could maybe go you know in a different place. We can actually go in and start to fuck these things up a little bit. Particularly if we were to do something like this. Maybe pitch this guy up an octave as well. Put it in textures mode. Do a little bit of of some reverb on that. Pan one to the left, one to the right. Probably a nice idea to also take I'm gonna actually get rid of this vocal because I'm not loving what it does but here's one other thing I just want to note is that when you have something like this this channel this isn't a direct a direct copy what I mean by that is these are probably If I were to copy this vocal here and we were to zoom in, you'd be able to see that these are actually different. They are the same melody, but they're subtly different, which allows us to do a very cool thing, which is... let's just put this on its own layer. I'm going to take this little chop thing that we've got here and I'm going to duplicate that twice. The fact that they're different, that will mean that we can actually make it feel like it's a double track. So I can pan one to the left and one to the right. And now we've got this very cool stereo kind of sound. I might also group these together and do a little bit of reverb beyond what we've already got. Very nice. It seems like I've actually deleted our clap. Oh no, it's just in the snag room. So, what I want to now insinuate is that why don't we take this banger, I should probably save it. What am I doing? What am I doing? We're going to save this. Also, key thing when you're working with samples, this isn't just a generic Ableton course, but if you're working with samples, you do not want to lose those samples just because you've moved the file. So, file, collect all and save. That's going to take all of those audio samples and actually bake them into the project. So why don't we now do export audio video. We're going to export this out to main and we're going to call this What Am I Doing? And we're going to do Exactly what we did before again. And this time we're going to take this... Fuck it. I guess we don't need a folder. I'm actually just going to highlight all of these and let's just delete them all. I don't need them. I like to keep everything nice and tidy. Let's upload audio. I'm going to do what am I doing. You need to do it a couple of times to make it work for some strange reason. We're going to do a remix. And now I want to get maybe some like Latin percussion kind of feel. So I'm gonna do... let's do like Latin percussion, let's do percussive, ritualistic, shamanic, world folk music. What else have we got? We'll do like... what's that word I'm thinking of? Tribal. Tribal. We'll do hand drums, congas, bongos. And we'll just do one like that. So we'll do an instrumental variation. I've got so many ants crawling around on my computer for some reason. And we'll do remix as is. Why don't we then also just, I'm not sure if it's going to work, but we're going to do percussion solo as the custom prompt. And we'll do one more for good measure, just because we can. Kids to grow. And I'm curious what this is going to end up being. Those kind of bird sounds. Or human bird sound. I'm not sure about this one. Kind of like Mali blues. Like desert blues. What's this one? I love that little fill. Very cool. What's this? This one we need that vocal. This is probably a good example of a time when it would make sense to just use stems, because I only want the vocal, I don't need any of that other stuff. Let's just download the vocal. We're going to go back to Ableton and we're just going to slot in our vocal track. Which for some reason... Oh, I was going to say, why is it so clipped? Just because we've boosted this signal. Let's take a listen to what this sounds like just chucking it into our original track. Very nice. Okay, what were some of these other ones? Okay, so this one, we're going to go ahead and download some stems of this directly, because I want those vocals and I want the drum. Let's be real, I probably just want all of the stems. I'm going to do it quickly. You see I bounce back and forth sometimes. Whatever is the quickest and easiest solution a lot of the time is what I will end up doing. So let's take this little group of stems and we're going to bring these bad boys in. I feel like some of those drums, those percussion elements will really help tie this together. So we'll do the same thing, turn them off and only add in what needs be. I'm going to say... what is this other? Which one has the weird vocal? I'm going to put this in one group so that I can easily affect all of this nonsense low end. We'll do a bit of reverb. Delay. Let's take the AI toolbox on this. a bit of noise. Which again has made it sound so much better. And then we've got this drum element. So let's see what this feels like. I'm just going to actually roll off a bunch of the low end here so that we're... These drums are actually quite nice. So let's listen in context. Maybe I'll actually just mute the music and everything. Let's just listen to the drums that we've got. So what is that? Just drums. Okay let's listen. Clearly it's gone a little bit out of time which is okay. We can just come in here and adjust this a bit to the grid. So there we go. Let's do it at 13 also. There we go. So let's take a Quick Listen. Nice idea is to just adjust that start point so that it's almost right. There we go. I'm going to consolidate these drums so that that's baked in and I'm going to do a light 29% 16th note quantization a couple of times. So let us listen, perhaps even on complex mode, to see what this has added. Let's add our old bass back in. We can maybe roll off a little bit more of the low end. Very nice. Now let's listen particularly here in the context with our music and our vocals and then whatever this weird thing is. Now, these are off. I've got to bring them back in. Okay, here we go. I'm going to call that one key and chuck that in here. Percussion, this can just be his own little layer. And I'm going to go ahead, assign all tracks to colors. And also a big fan of doing this. I don't know what it is that inside of me gets such a kick out of it. of them, pressing command R and then deleting. Now there's no text, no names on anything. Everything is just way tidier, way easier to look at. And we have a really cool vibey track. I can still in fact turn off all of the AI stuff that we did. Obviously we haven't done a bunch to some of the other things, but let's listen to what it would sound like with all of the AI sounds just cutting through in a truly horrible way. We can just for good measure also put this to turn on and off this group. Let's take a listen. So this is with all of the AI stuff off. Why are you not off is the question. Cool. Okay, so here we go. Hopefully very sharp and uncomfortable. And let's bring it in. And then we're gonna bring it in. Obviously we don't need to have all of these vocals happening at the same time always. And maybe we duplicate this just so that we can explore some other possibilities. Let's do a section where we've got no vocals and we'll just get rid of that. Maybe we'll keep these vocals because they are kind of nice. But maybe we'll do a little section here where we don't have any of these long trippy things. It goes back to just being... And we can also get rid of the pad sound from here and I think this is going to give us a really nice feel. Get rid of this vocal too. I'm gonna get rid of this too, so let's just really dial it down. Maybe this would actually be a cool spot to bring in the other bass line. I don't know what it's gonna sound like here if we just bring this back to a different start point. bar 17. Let's just replace our actual bass line with this. And of course, we really don't know what's going to come of this. Let's bring this back in. I mean, the world is your oyster. You could take this, you could now put that back in to Udio, you could get some more stems, you could generate some completely different things, you could tie them in. But that is really the majority of my workflow using these AI tools, is just this iterative process of you find something that you're inspired by. You download it, download the stems, chop it up, see what you can do with it, combine it with something else. And when you've got that, export it out again, put it back in and see if the AI can help you imagine possibilities that you couldn't even consider yourself. Bring it back in and it's just this wonderful iterative workflow where you just, you have no excuse these days saying I'm not inspired or you have no excuse using splice samples that everybody else has. You know, it's such a bummer when you hear a track that has a vocal that you know from another track. And it's definitely, it's not like It's like a classic sample, it's just a splice loop I find. Anyway, so I want you to pause this video now before we continue on into the next module and I want you to have a look at what you can do fusing in some of those extra elements, fusing it together and seeing what is what. So pause this video and I shall see you shortly. Okay, I hope that your project is coming together nicely. I hope that you've found all sorts of cool hidden gem samples to chop up and flip around. of this module in which we have been arranging and doing all sorts of fun things in that sense. We're actually going to look at now in this next module a little bit more of actual sound repair. So we're going to be fixing all of these sounds and making sure that all of those ugly spectral noises are gone as best as we can. And of course you could absolutely, everything we've done so far, you could leave it at that. That could be the max amount of audio repair that you do.
