Okay, congratulations on getting this far in the course. You now know how to define your vision sonically. Take that to Udio, generate a whole host of samples to be able to use. You know how to download those samples, make stems out of them, and even now get them inside of Ableton in time so that it's easy to actually work with them. Which brings us on to possibly the most exciting part of this whole process, which is of course making music with these AI-generated samples. of modules which is going to be about using these to create full tracks. I want to just share a couple of thoughts on the philosophy of how you go about doing this. Because while there's absolutely nothing wrong with generating something on Oodio, downloading the whole stems, putting them in, and using that arrangement as your track, and then just using these stems as the ability to then go in and be able to mix and produce these things so that they sound better, one thing I like to do is not use the whole track, but use just little snippets of the parts that I like. Maybe I don't like the drums from here to here. Maybe I only want this little bit. So what I tend to do is create sort of sonic collages of a whole host of different tracks as stems. And one of the most fun parts of that, I find, is working with the drums. Particularly as we now know how to split those into that individual element. So we've got, say, just kick. We've got snare, clap, and all that kind of jazz. So first we're going to look at drums. How can we use these drum stems in a way to be able to create things that sound really good? We're going to be diving further into the refining process later on and really getting the best quality out of these sounds. We're going to do a little bit of that in this module, but for now I just want to show you how I go about taking these imperfect but cool drum patterns and making something kind of vibey with it. So the track we're going to be working with on this is definitely not 161 beats per minute. I really need to adjust my tempo calculation. But this is the track. It's like a cool kind of housey thing. I really like the feel of the drums. Obviously the track doesn't sound great on its own. But what I want to do is take the drums track. I want to take the snare, the kick, I want to take the toms and the hats. And I'm going to drag them in in the same way that we did before. The reason I'm doing this without the other things is because, again, we do need to get overall everything in line, everything on tempo. So we're going to highlight all of the tracks. We're going to make sure that warp is off. We're going to go to the end, just make sure that all of these start at the right position so that they line up. This seems fine. We'll bring this back there. And these are almost all in time. There we go. Cool. So now at this point what do we need to do? We need to find where the one is. This is our one. Is this in time? No, it most definitely is not. So we need to first cut at the one. which in this case I'm going to do maybe around there. Cut, cut, cut, cut, cut. And now I'm going to drag all of these back to the beginning and we just need to adjust the tempo so that these are in time. So it looks as though in between 120 and 121 is going to be our sweet spot. So we'll now highlight them all. Click, turn on warp. I dragged this back, I prefer this view. And now that they are all on warp I'm able to just very easily go in here and just drag on average them back onto the grid. We'll do it five. We'll go here at seven. We'll do nine. We'll do this. Very nice. Can we just skip forward a little bit? Yep, that seems okay. We'll drag this back on as well. And the goal here is just to have it so that whatever tempo we play it at, the drums are in time. We can see that that's pretty much on the grid. We'll do that. Very nice. Okay, so if we were to play the track now, with the metronome on. It's in time. Cool. We can actually get rid of the drums track itself. And now we've got these layers. So let's name them. We've got kick. This is hats. This is clap, call it. And this is toms. Now, by no means am I saying that the drum splitting algorithm that I've featured in my best stem splitter ever is perfect, Because you can see here, it still doesn't sound perfect. But there is a lot of cool pieces in here that are now going to be a lot easier to work with because of the fact that we have them on separate layers. So I'm going to drag this forward a little bit and I want to find a nice section that I can work with. I'm also seeing that it actually probably wants for this to be a one. So let's drag that on to the grid and we'll drag it back a bit. Cool. So I want to find a nice little loop going here. So maybe first let's just listen to the kick. I'm also just going to turn off I have on my master channel the god particle. And I want to find a section that just sounds good. That bit sounds good so I'm just going to paste this back here. Oh. And my goal right now is just to make a very nice loop that we can just play. And the key here as well is that I know it's tempting to want to keep all of the variation, but particularly in the realm of like kind of house music that I make, you want to have a sense of repetition. So even if the audio isn't the best quality, if you make it so that that inferior sense of quality is more repeatable, you almost can't notice that it's not ideal quality because there's a repetition. What is going on here? Oh, I guess that's why. I'd gone into triplet grid. But because of the fact that it's consistently weird, it sounds a bit better to the ears. So now let's find maybe... what's this Tom's section? I'm just going to copy and paste this in here and see what this sounds like. So I kind of actually like this first half here. So I'm just going to duplicate that across. And the goal here is just to take little pieces that I can snip and I can make something kind of nice out of it. I'm also feeling like... We want to get rid of this. I'm just going to cut that out. So we have this. I'm noticing that my laptop is about to die as well. So let's just take the old cable. I'm going to plug this in to the power outlet. I can unplug the dehumidifier now. Nice. Okay, so I'm going to copy and paste this tom layer across. Also, we could maybe make another layer on top, but for now I just want to build out a basic loop. What about these hats? Is there a nice section in here? This bit sounds kind of cool so I'm just going to copy that to the beginning. Going to loop it out a bit so now we've got, if we listen to this in contact. Very nice. Again the quality, the timbre of it isn't super nice. That's something we're going to explore fixing a little bit later on. What about this clap layer? Maybe something here. Let's just copy and paste this whole piece here and see which bit feels best. So now we're going to bring this clap layer in. So this bit is actually kind of nice. I like that. But what we also want to do now is go in and we're going to have some elements that have actually been put onto the wrong track. So if we listen to this, that first hit is actually part of the kick. And if we don't have... like if we play the two together, that kick sounds like it has a click on top. But if we play it here, it's missing it. So if we want to, we can either remove the sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss If I don't have that first hit, that clap in there, we could either keep this in or remove it. But the point is we want to make it so that it's consistent. So the kick sounds like that with having the click on top. So what I would tend to do is I'm going to take that and I'm just going to copy and paste that across. So this is now going to be the little knock section on top of our kick. What have we got here? These parts can all go. We don't want any of these other hits. I'm also sensing that this bit, that's a really nice clap, but it's not actually falling where I'd like it to. So I'm going to cut that out so that we don't have anything on the one. Let's just get rid of that. Let's take a quick listen. Now that we're making it so that these pieces are only happening in the interim spaces between those kicks, we've now got... Bring the kick back in. Which sounds a lot better, at least to my ears, than... Because we have this piece now separated. What's going on here? And we can put this on its other layer, so we'll call this maybe like "knocky perk". And then here I'm going to actually put this as our clap. And we're going to take that piece that was just here and we're going to use it more repeatedly, so... We can go in, just maybe move this a little on the grid... Maybe we'll come in and cut this a bit, but... That's nice. The goal is just to create a pattern out of this that feels good. So now let's take a listen with it all together. We can copy and paste these pieces across so that we now have a slightly longer pattern. I'm gonna get rid of all of that for a second. And now we've got... We'll duplicate some of these layers as well. So why don't we have a look at what we've got here in this tom section. Why don't I copy and paste that onto another layer and we'll maybe put this at the end of the bar. So now we have... And this bit obviously happened at a later section. We can play around with where it happens at. That's kind of nice. Do we need this first hit? Sounds cool, but what if we were to move that to a position like here? Just basically audio collar. And actually that's kind of nice. What if we were to put that here as well? So that we're now repeating these sections and just building out a kind of exciting pattern from it. Maybe this should happen every bar because that does sound very cool. This little Tom vibe we've got going there. We could even duplicate this so that last time it happens a bit different. We could even go in and do a double kick. Nice. Now we've got these hats layer. They're sounding kind of good. They're a bit digitally and crispy. But are there any other parts in here that could be cool to take out? Even if there's just small pieces. offbeat hat. So I'm going to copy that. I'm going to make another channel now. I'm going to fill in some of these halfway points with this more hi-hatt-y sound because although we've only made a one bar loop, by having another sound that is repeated that happens every offbeat will just help really glue it together. So let's take a listen by adding this offbeat hat in as well. Let's mute this first. And let's see what happens when we now bring this in. Let's bring the volume up a bit so we're really pushing it. Now this one also has some sort of knock in it as well so we probably also want to remove a decent amount of that low end. And we maybe even want to go in and just cut this just so that we don't end any of that weird shit after. There we go, it sounds more like a hi-hat to me. And yeah, we're just filling it out with pieces that already exist until we end up with something that feels nice. We could do a double kick there as well. Maybe not. Nice. So we've separated this out. What I tend to do is be very bold with my decisions and then just delete things. Just get rid of them. So at that point, we're then working with what we've got and then we only keep what we like. You could of course go in and find another track now. So maybe we've got something in here that is maybe a bit percussion heavy. Maybe this one? I want to find something. Let's listen to the full drumstem. This is actually the one we're working on. What about free sound? This one's a bit more housey. What have we got here? some sort of like slow R&B track. Okay, so like this for example. Why don't we now take this one, this is the whole drum track, and I'm just going to solo it. Let's click, I'm going to set as start point one, and I'm just going to try doing warp straight from here and see if this works. Because maybe we can find a section that just easily maps if this needs to go onto there, or is that the one? Let's take a quick listen to what happens if we were to loop this. I just want to create like a little bit of a percussion loop so let's see what this is. So this actually looks like it could be on a one and at this point I don't really care if it's not spot on. I would rather have something which can sort of just work. This actually seems to be the one there. Maybe we could just really put these onto the grid. Maybe we'll just take this one little loop here. And let's listen in contact. And what's nice as well is taking these little clips that we make loops of and then making subtle adjustments to say where they start or where they end. So in this case maybe we could make this end or start here. I'm just going to drag the point with the beginning point back. So now this one is different and it goes. We could even duplicate some of these. We could go in consolidate and then I'd like to quantize all of this. I just press command U. It's going to put this all nice and in time. Maybe we'll use the little transient shortening mode. I'm a big fan of this in Ableton just to get that to feel a bit pluckier. I'm going to now consolidate again which means that I can go in and further just remove the parts that I don't want. So now we've got... Get rid of all of this bit in the middle. Let's actually just fade this out. And then we'll cut this bit as well. Maybe we'll even just do that. And again we're just ending up with a nice pattern that we can use across the beat here. We've also got this bit and let's just cut that, fade it, bring that back again. We can duplicate this across, get rid of that, get rid of that. And now we've got a pattern. Let's listen in the context. And maybe this, boom, boom, boom, this should only happen when this bit doesn't. So I'm going to get rid of any of the parts that are overlapping, which is just going to create a little bit more space for us. is the essence of how I recommend going about chopping up drums and making a pattern out of these things. But it still doesn't sound very good. As I said, we're going to be exploring in a later module specifically how we would go about fixing the quality of sound further, but for now I just want to give you a little example of what I'm looking for in the sound of how I would improve it. So one of the telltale signs of these being AI-generated stems is like this stuff. Like this weird stuff that's on a channel that shouldn't be there. And so we can actually fix that. The majority of the annoying parts are in these spaces where in theory it's silent, you know? So what we want to do is just make sure that each one of these pieces that we're using in a loop is edited tight and nice so that we're only keeping the parts that we want. So let's start with the kick. Could we remove perhaps some of this and still keep the same vibe? Let's just delete that space. Now we have... Let's compare the difference between, say, just looping this... and... That's creating a lot more space. One of the things is we've still got this weird bit, so we need to add a bit of a fade. I'm gonna maybe fade it halfway. Now we've got a slightly bit more repeatable kick drum. So I'm actually gonna go in and I'm just gonna cut all of these moments because also, would you believe me if I said that... Actually, let's just copy and paste this here for a second. There's very little happening, but if we were to put a spectrum analyzer on it, there's a hell of a lot of sub in there. There is a hell of a lot of unnecessary audio that's going to be clogging up all of the mix space. So what I like to do is just go in and, kind of like when we were importing our stems, remove all of the silence. I say silence, so-called silence, because it's very clearly not silent. And I'm just going to go in and I'm going to fade. Here's a little trick, is if you turn it so that you're on the correct grid size and then just highlight and press command option F. I don't know what it is on a PC. You can just very easily do a fade and this fade will just really help tighten things up and get rid of that and just copy and paste this across. Now we have a repeatable kick drum that has a lot more space in the mix. Some of them may need a little bit more of a fade. Also maybe bring the fade off of the beginning so that we absolutely get the transient cutting through. Maybe we would actually rather just copy and paste this for. Maybe that is actually very nice as is. So let's just copy and paste this across. We have this double kick drum here. Cool. What have we got here? This is the hat. This is the little knock layer. This one we probably also want to get rid of any of the unnecessary frequencies that are making this not just be a click. So what we're going to do is put a high pass on it and we just want to get the click to come through. So let's take a listen. This probably even needs to be shorter so let's just go in and let's make sure that this is starting truly at like a tiny click. Really micro edits here. And I just want to fade it so that we get just a click. may not sound like it's gonna do much but if we actually copy and paste this across and we compare the difference of no kick with it to then adding the click in that just really helps tighten things up quite nicely also we could probably even fade these kicks all the way because we can always add some boom back in the base i'm even going to copy and paste that kick over And then we'll bring that click. You can hear how much that click does. It's subtle but it adds a nice top to that kit. Okay let's check out the hats layer. First let's look at just this offbeat hat. Have we already done much to it? Yeah we have. We've already faded this in. We could just again make sure that we're removing as much of what we don't need as possible. I might even shift this a little bit back off the grid because it seems to be kind of anticipated. like a shaker. Let's just shift that back and forth as such. Cool. It's got a lot of that digital tinniness that I'm not a fan of but we're going to explore fixing that in a second. Now we've got this hats layer. Now this is one of those key ones where maybe I'll increase the actual view that we're seeing here. It's one of those key ones where it probably is going to sound really nice just to do some subtle gating, some fading, because if I were to go in here and cut at every single one of these positions, let's just loop this bit first, the difference of just adding... Maybe we'll cut a little bit off of each one of these to make it easier to then fade it. But just by adding in a little bit of a down fade at the end, if we were to do something like this, we're going to end up with something a lot tighter sounding because it's just removing any of that unnecessary silence wherein which we're getting the weird artifacts coming through. So let's compare this... With of course this. Compare the difference again. And of course maybe we want some of that noisiness to come through but for just... That's something we can always add back in later. So I'm just going to cut on all of the others as well. Just the section before the downbeat. What have I done? Two... yeah yeah nice cut. "cut", "cut", "cut", and then it's going to cut off one piece. The reason I'm cutting off one piece is if I try and fade without it, it does a crossfade. So I just want to fade all of these like that, so every single one of these starts and ends within its time. Let's take a listen now with the other drums in as well. Okay, now we've got these knocky perk bits. There's definitely going to be pieces in here that could be adjusted. Let's take a listen. And also, do we need all of them? Do we need every hit? Probably not. What parts are most important? Is this bit helping? I would say it's not. Let's remove it. Maybe this bit. Get rid of it as well. Maybe even get rid of this. And actually this bit, this is one of those prime examples as well, where when you actually have something that you like, copy and paste it across and be like, okay, well this second time it won't do that and we'll get rid of this piece. Then we'll copy and paste it again across and then this final one maybe we'll copy and paste this piece so that it happens there as well. And let's take a listen now to the full pattern. We're going to copy and paste our new hats across as well. Cool. Now let's have a look at these toms. These probably need to be brought down a bit in volume. Oh actually that's because we've got this to its max. What parts of these toms don't sound great? We've got some of this this shitty noise that just needs to be removed so I'm going to go in and delete all of the space or all of the so-called silence which is not helping us. with our mix. And we're just going to get rid of all of that. I think this is actually a repeating pattern, but we'll just go through and delete it anyway. And get rid of that. Very nice. And yeah, let's just leave it as that for now. I'm actually finding that I prefer this bit than this bit. So I'm actually just going to replace the pieces. I'm just going to copy and paste it over. so that I'm getting a nice composite. Kind of like if you've ever done vocal comping but in this case working with AI is just a lot of comping. And actually this clap ought not be there. So now we've got our little tom section. We've also got this. Let's take a listen. Okay now we've got this funny thing. This we've already fixed. So let's take a listen to what we've got now and we'll call this tom's as well. We've got what feels like at least a lot tidier of a beat. But we still have those irritating sharp ends and also some of these things like these tom layers for example. They don't sound very nice. Like there's definitely the tone in them that we need but they don't sound delish I would say. Maybe we'll even get rid of that one so that they're not overlaying with each other. So what we need to do is go in here and we now need to use EQ to try and get each of these sounds to sound the best that we can. So let's first start with the kick. What is it that we don't like about this kick? Let's take an EQ8. Let's take a listen to some of these areas where maybe we want to get rid of some of that weird like middle click. That's adding a nice little bit of spaciousness to that kick. And also with this EQ8 or with this EQing of AI stuff, you may have heard me talk about in the past how I like to not use the EQ very much. You know, I don't use effects too much. I try and work with sounds that already sound good so that I don't need to mix them too much. But you can go really wild with these AI generated sounds because a lot of the time they don't sound good on their own. So you can really do crazy shit with the EQ where usually you'd be like, I mean, why would you need to do that to a kick sample? With this you may need to get kind of wild. So let's just take this EQ and see if there's anything we can do. I kind of like these two kicks the most. So I'm actually just going to delete all of those and just copy and paste it across because it feels... It's nice having that little second click. But we're going to go through again and just see what frequency ranges could do well to have a little bit of top added to them maybe. Now this might actually pair well with our click. That's sounding a lot better. Hell of a lot better. Maybe we'll see if there's anything in this range as well. Compare the difference. Now we're getting a much nicer kick coming through. We can add some more snap and stuff back to that. Let's go on to this hat then. What do we like about this hat? Well, very little at the moment because of this disgusting sharp sound. So first we're gonna find that really horrible noise which seems to be around there. We're just gonna bring that all the way out. And now one thing that I also wanted to draw your attention to is that it's very fun to every time you add some sort of processing to these pieces is to map turning the processing off with or actually to make this easier. these guys in a group. And what I mean by that is this means that I can just turn the group off with this key and it will just mean that we're going to be able to very easily A, B what we're doing and anything we add to it we can just add in there as well. So now we've got this hat that's sounding a lot better. Let's turn off all of what we've done. Already sounding a hell of a lot better. Okay let's go on to the hats now then. So these hats we're having a We're going to really tighten up that disgusting digital sound in a sec. But I just want to get close enough. Some nicer tidier version. So let's just turn this off with the same button. Did we do this? We've got to put this in a little group too. So now this is all off. Very nice. Okay let's go to our knocky percussion now. What parts of this need to be tidied up? Well, we've got a lot of low end here that needs to come out. There's some really horrible resonance in there that maybe we can get it rid of. Also, if you put this little headphone icon on, you can then click and hold to hear what the frequency is. Nice. I would also probably now consolidate this because I just want to make these even tighter. I'm going to put them onto beats mode and just shorten this even further. Cool, let's put a little group on here. What's this? I believe this is our clap. This has also got a shit ton of low end that does not need to be there. I'm just trying to find the sweet spot here probably going to be around 1k. That's nice. Maybe I'll do a little bit of a little bit of the high end being rolled off as well. And let's put this in its own little group, turn it off as well. We'll go to the toms. Now This is going to be a big one. Do we need all of this top end in the toms? Is that kind of noise that's coming through helping or hindering? This would probably also be nice to now consolidate, just do a small amount of the transient shortening. Cool. Put this in a grid as well. Or in a group. Okay, this one I think is a key. Because we want this to feel... Maybe I'll just do this with a filter. We do a little bit of envelope to snap it open. I'm going to turn this off. As you may notice we're losing a lot of that top end but we're going to bring that back in a beautiful way in just a second. Now we've finally got our tom layer here. I actually kind of like the top end in this so I'm just going to roll off a little bit of that low end. I'm going to get rid of some of this resonance here. That sounds good to me. Maybe we'll do a slight high pass there or a high shelf and I'm now going to turn this off with this key. So now we can listen to just EQ, what it does for our mix. This needs to be turned off. This needs to be turned off. I got the order wrong and so started turning some on when some were off. Cool, so this is with zero EQ whatsoever. Let's take a listen. And then I'm going to, when we get to the end of this bar, turn it on. Sounding a lot better, it's still not perfect. So what we're going to now do is you're going to find in these lesson resources the rack, which I've called the AI toolbox. And I use this all the time because of the fact that one of the main issues with top end in this AI stuff is that there's this like inconsistent, ugly, digital, I suppose you call it like spectral issues. And if you're familiar with mastering, if you go to actually put out a track or to export a track, there's a thing called dither. And what dither is, is when you go from a higher bitrate to a lower bitrate, you add some subtle noise to it, which evens out, so they say, it evens out the inconsistencies of the artifacts that are created. And I do something quite similar to this in the, I mean, it's not dithering, but I add noise to the areas where in which the frequencies sound kind of and what it does is it just masks the frequency. So let's first have a look at this kick or let's maybe start with the hats. What could we do with the AI toolbox to fix this? Well we've got a few options here. I'm going to leave these for now. Let's just go straight down to noise. Now if I start to bring this up this is now going to add noise at the frequency area that is set here. Let's also just bring this up. And I can move the position of that noise. I can move the width so it's really sharp or really wide. But you can see how a small amount of it is already doing wonders for making that come through in a nicer way. Maybe I'm going to put this actually before the EQ. And I'm also going to add a bit of bit reduction. As I start to bring this down, it's going to start to get a bit too digitally. But there's a position where we've completely changed the harmonic content of that hat. We could bring out a little bit of high pass. Completely changing it. Jitter as well will add a little bit of inconsistency that's further nice for that kind of shaker sound. the clip amount. I'm going to put this to full and if I turn clip on we're only hearing what's being removed so we're not hearing anything as we start to bring this up to its max. We're just removing that signal and therefore further making it. I'll show you what it looks like. Oh where is my... here we go. So if I take the oscilloscope you'll be able to see that by actually removing the clip amount. We're just removing some of those higher peaks. So we're just removing it, keeping the sound the same, just making it a little bit more balanced, which is of course very nice. So let's compare the difference. Very sharp, tinny, disgusting. Now we've created a far nicer sound out of it. Let's look at the knocky perk. This is a prime winner for some of this AI audio toolbox. I'm going to add a little bit of noise to it. And the goal here isn't to make everything sound noisy, it's just to add noise to fill in some of those digital spots. We'll do a bit of redux as well. Do a little bit of low pass. A little bit of clip. Just removing that top. Now we've got this little clap. This would probably be kind of nice to take a... we'll use the AI toolbox, but we're also going to take a vocoder and straight away I'm going to set the bands to 4 and this will allow us to add noise to it. That's way too much. We're going to bring the dry wet down. We don't need so much of the high end. We'll do something a little bit more like this. And this allows us to just bring in A bit of noise. Which can do wonders for the overall mix. Let's put the AI Toolbox after that. Now I'm going to bring up noise here just to add a bit more snap coming through. Bit of Redux. Maybe make the width of the noise a bit more persistent. Put this to maybe 1k. Going to high pass it a bit. and let's try and clip it out. Cool. So now that we have done that we could probably also bring the release down a tiny bit more. So there we go we've gone from taking that to this. Maybe we'll bring a little bit less dry wet on that noise. Now let's go to these toms. What do these sound like? This is a really nice thing to add the AI tools to just because adding a touch of noise to that. Do a bit more high pass. It just it brings out some of that brightness in a really nice way. Cool now we'll go down here we've got this little thing now this will be nice to first actually just roll off a little bit the Make that less of a pluck or less of a hit and more of a whoom. And let's add a touch of noise to this. Small amount. Maybe we'll add a bit of redux. Not too much. Then we can always filter it at the end. Bring the noise down a touch. Completely change the sonic of it. And we can also then continue to EQ after the fact. Now we've got these toms. Let's add just a touch of noise to this. Just a tiny amount. Okay, now let's listen with things on versus off. This is with no effects. And then we're gonna bring in, once we get round to the end, the updated version. And you can hear how much better that sounds. I think this knock is creating still a little bit too much resonance for my liking. Cool! So, It's sounding a lot better. Now, we've added a bunch of noise, it's sounding bloody brilliant, but one of the other key things that I like to do to make these drums sound better is to now layer them with non-AI generated sounds. And one would assume that the quality of a non-AI generated sound, adding that to what we've already got, is really going to enhance things. Now there's a couple of ways of doing this. There is one which would take a little bit more effort, but is totally free. you have a sample pack of any sorts, or even if you have a microphone you can record and you can add to this, and that would be, in theory, just to add sounds. And I will demonstrate that in a second, but I'm actually a big fan of a plugin that goes by the name of Snapback. Snapback Plugin. Who's it by? Plugin. Cable Guys. This is also a relatively inexpensive plugin that is so good. This thing is absolutely insane. Even David Guetta likes it. is, I'm not sure if you're familiar with the Cable Guys plugins, but they're really good at real-time audio. I don't even know how to describe it. Like, really good at being able to read audio in real-time and layer things in real-time. So I'm going to show you how this works. Let's take our kick here, and we're going to use our trusty friend Snapback. If I recommend you to buy one plugin that will increase the quality of your mixdowns, that it is not a mixdown track, it's this. because it allows you to actually make the sound that you want it to be. So let's take a listen to this kick. One of the things that I think is missing is a little bit of click, a little bit of punch. Obviously we've got this click here, but let's say for example we didn't. We can add a transient to it. So why don't we add one of these options of a click kick. We'll see the emu attack. So you can see in real time it's adding that click. Let's listen to some of the other options. Like that's quite nice. And then you have a bunch of ways to be able to manipulate these things. So like this 90s dance one I really like. We can make it shorter with the decay knob. So it's very subtle but adding that click really does wonders. We can also change the pitch of it. We can change the attack to make it smoother. We can shift it back and forward in time to find the right sweet spot. We can phase invert it and crucially as well we can adjust the volume of it. And we can bring the high pass up and it all shows it in real time. The goal here is just to have a bit of a click come through that sounds nice but it's not interfering frequency wise. Maybe a little less decay. And now we've got snapback. This is really really the crucial part of this. this plugin is that it allows you to add something before the beat. So if we were to add, say, a compact backwards hat, notice before this kick that we're going to get this little sweep. And that doesn't sound very nice, but some of these other options, like let's put a little shaker before the beat. This is a favourite of mine, it's the 90s dance flip. This just adds like a little bit of a backwards line before that helps it really cut through. Let's turn it on and off. So let's compare with and without snapback. Does quite a lot, I think you'll agree. Bear in mind this was our original kick. We need to adjust the timing ever so slightly so that this knock cuts through just right. Cool. Let's move on to something maybe that's a little bit more obvious. Let's take this clap layer now. While this sounds good, what makes a clap in my mind sound really good is the snapback, is the part that happens before the grid. So you can see that we maybe have a little bit of a start here, but we want something that's going to make it kind of flam in. So using some of these clap snapbacks, let's turn this off. Now let's bring it in. We actually need to bring the trigger down because it doesn't seem as though it's hearing it. Some of these...yeah, we need to maybe put this on general. There we go. It wasn't actually reading it. So some of these claps...oh, that one's nice. We can also roll off a little bit of that top end just so we're getting the snap but none of the rest. And then transient as well. On a clap it's very nice. to have a little bit of noise. So let's go down here into the noise section. I like to sometimes use this cassette here. This one's nice. For some reason we need to decay this down a bit, bring the volume down a touch, and compare the difference of this clap before and after. Maybe we'll bring a little bit of the high pass down. And what's nice about is you can just skip through and see if another one would sound better. Which in this case I think it does. Maybe we'll make this noise a bit wider. Let's compare the difference. I mean the difference between those is insane. Let's go to the hats now as well and we'll take a listen to this. This is going to be a big one because right now it still sounds kind of digital. So why don't we add to it? Let's just add a shaker. There's a few options in here. I'm going to bring the decay down a bit. Just adding to the mix quite nicely. We'll bring the width up on that one as well. And a snap back. So let's have a backwards shaker. This one does wonders. So with and without. In fact, let's just compare the hats before and after. I mean, it's just bonkers. Cool. So we've done those. I might actually just get rid of the click so that we don't need that. Now we've got these tom things as well. I'm going to add a snapback to that because I want these to have a little bit of a woody kind of punch to it. So let's see if we've got any punches in here. What else have we got? Nice. Maybe for a snapback we can do something... one of these guys. And of course in this case the snapback can be shortened as well by bringing up the attack and then shift. Let's try a different one of these quickly. Nice, maybe roll off a little bit of the high and the low. Let's try one more. Oh, I'm into this one. So with and without. And it just helps cut through the mix a lot I think having a little bit of noise a little bit of extra sound on top. Now we've got these guys. These are also going to do very nice to have a bit of a bit of an actual punch that they don't yet have. So why don't we take something like maybe the 90s dance or the real thing. That's nice to have A little bit of punch coming through there. Let's add maybe the DM me. A little bit of noise coming through, a little bit of a click. Compare it with and without. Bring the volume down. Cool. And the final layer now is this Tom's one. I don't think this really needs anything. This sounds pretty good to my ears. Let's compare with and without. I've got our special key to be able to turn it all on and off. So this is what the track would sound like with everything off. And as is custom when we get to the end, I'm going to press the key and we're going to listen to it. I mean, listen to that. Miles different. And yeah, this really is the power of just Just treating these sounds as like, "Okay, sure they're imperfect," but I can add to them. I do just want to quickly, for anyone who does not want to buy the plugin, give you a little... It's pretty self-explanatory, but obvious setup of how you can go about doing something similar. I don't have Snapback on this clap right now. I've turned it off. So if I were to go in and just like look for another clap in my samples, let's find something in here... like this. And for the early snap I could just do something like this. You know, and I could even go in and cut this smaller with just the intention of like trying to make it so that there's a little something that happens before the beat. So let's take a listen to what this sounds like now and I could bring the volume up and down. This is without. And then add a little bit before. Sounds much better. Now we could also add some, say, noise. Oh. This could be the thing that we add on the beat. This is our transient, as I suppose they would call it. Bring the volume of this down a hell of a lot. And now we have with and without. This needs to come down in volume even more. Bring the other two back in. And so this... Let's compare them being on and off. This is without it. And I'm going to bring it in. So you could easily do that with any sound as well, but I highly recommend invest in Snapback. It is so worth it. It is such an amazing tool. Again, compare the difference. OK, so that's really the basics of how I go about processing drums. "Spirits of the Earth". Yeah, so this is like a prime example of something that might be kind of nice to add as some percussion. For this case, I'm going to showcase the power of not having to actually remove anything from the project file and instead just chuck on this. I'm going to solo the drums, make sure that... Turn off warp. I'm gonna take this little piece here and then I'm just gonna freeze and flatten this one section so that I've just got that one piece to work with, you know, and I can do exactly the same thing. Let's find... Have we still got remix on anything in here? Remix does cause a huge amount of latency to have in your project file so that's something that's worth noting as well. But let's just say take this as our one. Let's put this like that. And now we could loop just this section and have... I'm going to consolidate it and hard quantize just to get this all... Oh, I don't mean that. Let's put this at 16th notes, just hard quantize. So now we have... Another one of those situations where we could just then take the EQ, remove everything. everything that doesn't need to be there. So we probably don't need... This could probably be shortened to something like that. Maybe go in here as well, do a similar thing. So then we get... Get rid of these. Maybe even copy and paste that. 'cause you know, you get the idea, being able to go in and just be able to edit these things in a way. So that sums up this module on using drums. I want you to now pause this video, go ahead and play around for 20, 30 minutes, maybe to an hour, with just really exploring the power of isolating drum parts like this.
