Welcome back to the third module in this course which is going to be all about splitting stems. Now there are a multitude of ways to do this these days and I wanted to give you four options that you could pick from as well as I'm also going to give you what I think is my personal best and in another sub video break down specifically how to go about doing that if you are interested in following my advice. So let's jump right in. I've got a piece of audio here. Also important to note that you're going to see from now on most of the times that I'm generating I tend to actually do the two minute ten second model this is just because of the fact that when you also set this to zero it means that you're always generating something that is starting from the absolute beginning and you're getting a decent amount of audio you don't need to then go in and extend and make a bloody intro and all that kind of stuff if I have something I like I want to have two minutes and ten seconds of it straight away and you can always extend onwards but I just wanted to put that in as a note is that most of what you're seeing as stems I'm going to be downloading the full 2 minute 10 second because then we've got a lot to work with. So I'm gonna actually use this as our example. Let's take a quick listen to what we've got. Anyway, very cool R&B, sassy, soft, gentle, whatever, you know the prompt. And I could of course just download this as is. I could just click on it and then I could go here, download WAV. and we could work with this piece of audio as is. We could chop it up. This would be how, really, people used to sample before about three years ago. You know, and if you didn't have the stems to something, there was nothing you could do about it. You sampled the thing, you did your best to try and EQ out the drums, but there was nothing you could do to get those elements separated from one another. To have the bass, to have the vocals, to have maybe even ideally the kick and the snare on separate channels. And recently, within the past three years, a lot of software has come out that has allowed for this This rather, I would say, black, dark, well, not dark magic, but definitely magic approach to being able to take a piece of audio and unmix it. The quality is still not perfect, but it's definitely good enough to get good results with. So the four versions of how I'm going to be teaching this to you today start with the simplest and least energy intensive approach, which is first to just do it through Udio. Udio allow you to download WAVs, they allow you to download MP3s, and they also Also, if you actually click on here or you right click and download, they allow you to download stems. If you open this up, this is actually, it might actually take a second longer. This is what it would usually look like if we do stems. It takes a moment and that's because the stems aren't prepared until you ask for them. And then the process begins. Sometimes you're going to get an error and if it does give you a little pop up error and it says stems could not be prepared right now, just refresh the page and do it again. In this case, I can now click download all and I could get all of those or I could listen to just the individual layers. Just drums. Nice. You know, here's the music. Whatever. And I could download those individually if I don't want all of them. Now this is a perfectly good way of creating stems. If I've downloaded this one before, now I've got these. Here they are. Let's get rid of the sample analysis files. I could take these stems as they are and I could just chuck them in. And here we go. When it decides to. Oh, I've put it on the wrong channel, that's why. MIDI. So okay, I've got these stems and this would be perfectly fine. I've got bass, I've got drums, I've got other, which is all musical elements, and I've got vocals. But I'm going to stop us right there because at least for me, I want to have more depth to the stems. Instead of just having other be all of the musical options, and instead of just having drums be everything, I'd like to have a little bit more of a granular control. As I said before, maybe it would be nice to have kick, So by all means, if you don't want to spend any more money on any other services, you can absolutely get your stems directly from Udio and it will be good enough. You know, it'll be absolutely fine. However, if we want a little bit more control to actually split things further, there are another couple of options. The first of which is probably the big dogs on the scene that first came around with an AI stem splitting device. これによくるのによく使っているのかもしれないです。 played with this new stem splitter system because to me the idea of having to spend $20 a month for just splitting stems seems a bit ridiculous and also it's limited to only 90 minutes. So this is an option by all means go and try this out a lot of people love la la la la la AI but it is an online service as well so you can't just split things at home which is another sorry away from home if you don't have wi-fi. So, moving on, la la la la la la, AI is a great service. There's a lot of others like that. There's another plugin which I actually like using, which is this, Remix. This only costs $49. It's quite inexpensive. And this does something a little different. I think there's actually an interesting approach to stem separation, which is to do it in real time. I'm going to show you what this means. What do you mean by real-time stems? If I take this track, I'm gonna take the whole version, not the stems. Let's take a listen to this again. Cool. If I were to now take our remix plug-in, I have a giant amp crawling on my laptop. I just put it on the channel and this definitely is pure magic. I can now in real time, solo... So we can listen to say just the drums. We can bring the sensitivity down, which is getting rid of those vocal bits. We could bring in the bass. Bring the sensitivity down. We could bring in the vocals. Get rid of the drums. Now the trade-off for this being real-time is that the quality of the audio And this, in my opinion, is not as good. It's not just pure fire-level audio quality. But it is quite good for one main reason, which is the fact that a lot of the time I don't necessarily love the idea about having all of the stems for every track downloaded on my computer. Because let's say, for example, we've got... What is this audio file that we're working with? This one. This is 25 megabytes. If I have the stems of that, that's now 100 megabytes. Because each stem is going to be the same size, regardless of whether it's silent or not. Like a 25 megabyte clip of silence is the same. So, a lot of the time I don't want to split everything straight away. I don't want to end up with stems. I want to be able to almost have my little preview shop. I want to be able to go, "Oh, yeah, I want to work with this now." But the question is, what do I want to work with? And in this case, what would be very cool is I could say, "Well, I really like..." I really like this intro section and I also like maybe this vocal part so what I would do in this case is I could actually just duplicate this a few times and I could say okay well this one is just drums and I'm going to solo that and then in this one we're just going to do say vocals and then we could duplicate this again and then in this one we're just going to do We'll do bass and other and piano. And so what I can now do is just cut this and say, well, I only want these bits. I can now freeze and flatten and I can decide what I want those stems to be made of and how long they are. Another thing as well is maybe you just want a tiny snippet of the vocal. I'll show you in a second how I would go around doing that as well. But sometimes it makes sense just to like snag the one bit that you want. Like, I don't need the whole vocal stem if I know that I'm only going to use the bit from 20 to 20 to 20. 25 to 29 bars. This is taking a little moment so we'll jump back here. There's one other option after this digital, what's it called, Akon Digital Remix plugin which, you know, as I said, this is great. The quality of the audio is not as high as maybe even the inbuilt Udio stem separator but there is one other piece of software here, this RipX that we're going to look at. This now seems to be done so let's take a listen. We have now split it. Should be done. Cool. Okay, so now we've actually ended up with this drum track. We've ended up with the music and bass. And we've ended up with the vocal. And this is now a lot easier to work with because I've decided, okay, I just want that piece. And then the other piece that I was going to mention before is that if we undo this now, we'll just undo that. In this case, I could of course just go in here and I could say solo vocals and to make it even easier let's do it proper real time I'm just going to set the input of this new audio channel to the input of there and I can record out just the bit that I want. It affects on you know like a pre -processor. And of course anything I do there is then being processed in real time I could put some compression on. We're going to be looking more at improving the quality of sound later on, but you get the idea. It's very nice to be able to actually end up with the exact file that you're hearing, being able to tweak it in real time. So that is an option. Now, the other option is RIP-X. Now, this is $99. This is double the price of your remix, but this is a very cool piece of software that is kind of more of a DAW kind of approach, which is that it is its own software. and all we're going to do is drag the file into it and it will take a little moment or so. It says it's going to take two minutes. We can separate the instruments. We want voice. We want bass. We want other sounds and instruments. Drums and percussion. And then here crucially we can separate guitar and piano as well. So this is going to give us vocals, bass. It's going to break up music into a few layers depending on what it actually hears. And instead of just giving us drums it's going to give us "Kick", "Percussion" and "Drums". So let's go ahead and click "Rip" and it's going to take a little moment to do that. And this is a great way of pre-processing your stems. As you're going to see in a second, what's kind of cool about the way that RipX works as well is if you've ever used a piece of software like Melodyne, this gives you what are called blobs. And blobs are visual representations of particular notes or even in like a polyphonic sense chords. So you can actually see what those notes are and you're able to move them up and down. So being able to adjust audio after the fact, being able to change a chord that was played from audio using a MIDI type interface is pretty wild. And that's actually what RipX has been built on. If I were to open up, say this was a track that I, a remix that I'm making for somebody, and I lost the project file and needed to remove the bass. So what's cool is if we take a quick listen to the track. Here is the song. But I can actually solo the individual elements. If I click on voice, here is just vocals. We've got piano. Ironically, I wouldn't say that's a piano. I would say that that's a bass. I guess it split it kind of interestingly. Here's our kick. Here's the drums. Here's the percussion. Of course, the quality of it is still not perfect. none of these are, but it would definitely do a very good job a lot of the time getting you to a point where you can at least split things enough to be able to process them and get them to sound good. Nice. Now we've got this track, our trusty whatever this hearts intertwined is called. Let's take a listen. Let's solo just the kick and the drums and the percussion. Let's bring the bass in. Let's solo the piano. There's no piano, it says. I guess it thinks there's strings. You could put vocals in. And what's nice about this is you can then go export and then you could export either stems, which will do drums, bass, other and vocal. We could do separate layers, which will export all of these and you can add as many as you want. We're going to be looking at Ripex in more depth later on in this course. But for now, I just wanted to show you that this is a great way of being able to export things. The Fact Check this out, final little taster for you here. If we go in, this is what I was talking about, blobs, is we can actually adjust these notes after the bobs. We can even duplicate them so we can have a mole. That's absolutely horrible. You get the idea. And we can go back and obviously that. So it's a nice way to be able to adjust that in MIDI. You can do all sorts of changes before you then export it and then the audio that you get will end up being, as we've seen, the kick percussion drums. Cool. So those are your free inbuilt Udio option and then two paid or three paid options. La la la la la la la la AI, Ripex and Remix. Now I want to give you what I would say is I think the best option. option these days, which is actually a script that I wrote, which is free, free for you to use. And it takes a little bit of effort to set it up, and right now it just runs in the command line. So if you're not familiar with this kind of approach to doing things on a computer, I'll explain that in the video specifically about this. But what's cool about my approach is that all we do is drag the track into Terminal and press Enter. We can say how many stems that we would like. Would we like four or six? In this case, do we want "Do you want drums, bass, guitars, vocals, and piano, other?" Yeah, go on. Why not? We'll do six stems. And would you like drum stems? Kick, hat, claps, whatever?" Yes, I would. So what this is going to now do is not only is it going to create stems, but it's going to analyze the key and the tempo for the audio file. Then it's going to split those stems into drums, bass, vocals, guitar, piano, and other. So this is now mimicking kind of the style of stems that you get from something like la la la la la la la AI, which is further splitting things down the line. This is not going to take too long. I don't know what your computer is like and how many resources you have, but, you know, it may be a bit faster or a bit slower. But the best thing about this is A, it's totally free. You can run it as much as you like, as often as you like, and on as many tracks as you like, and you don't need the internet. And the other thing about it is, of course, that we're getting separated drums. Now, this is such a huge thing. I have not found any services online that are offering a drum separation algorithm yet. So you can see here that it's now done that. It's created a hearts intertwined guitar, piano, and it's even baked in the key and the tempo before it. I will just say the fact that the tempo detection and key at times as well is a little bit off. It's not always spot on. However, as we'll look at in the actual importing section of this module, it's quite nice to have a rough idea. to then go from there because a lot of music doesn't stay one tempo. So you can see now it's just running the drum algorithm and boom it says that it's completed all done and it's even now automatically opened the folder for us in the location on my computer and we can see that we have the full track channel here. We've got the drums like we would have had before and it's actually a really good one. We've got bass but where it starts to get really good is that we have of course just kick. We've got hats. We've got snare and clap. And we've got toms which is sort of all of the rest. And then of course we've separated the music into we've got guitar. I don't think there really is anything in guitar here. It probably would have made more sense to it the other way. We've got piano and we've got other. which in this case is pretty much everything. So yeah I'm going to talk about specifically how you go about downloading this getting this set up. This is a project I'm going to continue to work on so I probably will end up eventually maybe even by the time you're watching this having like a nice GUI front end for this so that you can run this on your Mac. Currently I've been playing around with just making a very boring ugly one. Do I still have it? I think I might have deleted it. But anyways the point is it's going to be fucking banging. I highly recommend it. is to pause this video, find one of the tracks that you have created and generated, and then I want you to either download the stems directly from Udio or check out some of the other options. But I want you to end up with some stems, because in the next video we're going to be importing those into Ableton in a way that makes life easier rather than more difficult. So pause this video now and go and create some stems. Cool. So you should now have some I'm going to continue working with the ones that we just generated which I have automatically pushed into my folder here because of the tool that of course I highly recommend that you get. I'm going to start a new project file. The most important thing that I see a lot of the time and you know you may say Lex this is absolutely unnecessary for you to tell me such a thing I'm not a moron but surprisingly so many people get this wrong and end up causing themselves so much and that is if I were to just drag these in one option would be to go in and just manually do it every single one which would absolutely feel like a total waste of time. The other option would be to highlight them all and if you actually drag them in like this it doesn't look like they're all coming. If I actually zoom out you can see that it's now put them all one after the other. It's on the wrong channel though, it's a MIDI channel. That's not what we want either. We want to put all of them on their own individual channels and Here's the key thing: have them line up in time. And I'll show you why that's going to be a bit of a challenge. If we now drag them and hold the command key on a Mac or I believe control on a PC, if we hold command and then let go of the mouse, it's now going to automatically put them on their own channels. Nice! Surely we should now be able to play it. Let's take a quick listen. Unfortunately, no. Ableton has different ideas. is to make sure that all of these clips end up being the same length. Because they were all generated at the same length, so we should be able to see them all line up. So what I tend to do is I'll click on one, and then I'll press Command-A or Control-A to select them all, and I'll turn off Warp. We don't want any tempo changing or Ableton doing any funny business yet, anyway. So, what I'm going to do now is all of these should end at the same position. The fact that these are all ending at the same position means to me that those are probably pretty fine. But these ones need to line up. And unfortunately you can't drag it out for some reason. And that's because of the fact that Ableton, if you zoom in here, has decided to actually start this clip at an arbitrarily late position. And on this one it's done it even further. There is no good reason why Ableton has done this. So we actually need to go in, and I like to look at it from the end of the project file. I'll literally just go in and I'll click on each one, and then I'll I'll click on this flag and I'll drag it left. And by dragging it left it's actually just moving the start point back and as you can see watch here I'm going to drag left. Boom! It pushes them all so that they are the same length. And we can actually zoom in a little further to make sure. This one also needs to be pulled back. Boom! And then this one this is the full track. You don't actually need that one in there. You'll notice actually one thing about my stem splitter is that it puts the full track in there. And that's actually a pretty important part because because when you're actually skipping through these folders, you're like, what is this track? It's important to be able to actually hear what the whole track is on its own. So I actually copy those in there. But now that we've got these all in time, I can in fact get rid of the full track. We don't need it. But if I were to press play now. It sounds great, but if I had to put the metronome on. It's not actually in time. And so we wouldn't actually be able to produce this song in any meaningful way of being able to add layers on top, being able to do anything like that. So first and foremost, we need to actually get this lined up to the grid. And again, this is such a crucial part of working with stems, particularly if they have been generated by AIs. You need to actually have these things line up on the grid. So how do we do that? Well, I tend to find that the easiest approach is to try and quantize the drums to the grid rather than anything else. And we're only going to quantize the drums and let everything else follow. Because the track is in time with itself. It is 100% in time with the other elements. All we need to do is make it so that it lines up with the grid in some way. The first thing I'm going to do is try and find a very clear one. So this little drum fill is not a one. which is something that happens before the beat but the point is we need to find a one and we need to make the track start on the one let's take a listen so this is a one you know and what i mean by that is if we go one two three four and i can now click there because i've cut on the drums i'm just gonna press shift down a bunch and then press command e and that's gonna cut it all and i do want to keep these cool tom fills but for now we need to actually bring this bit so that this one starts on a 1. And instead of bringing it all the way back to the beginning, I'm just going to push this to a 9, or you can do 17 or whatever. It's just so that I can visualize it being perfectly on the grid. And the key here is that we need to watch the audio as the grid. And I don't know if you ever noticed, but if things are off of warp, if you change the tempo, they stretch. It seems as though they move in a position based off of the So by default it had suggested that this track was 98.36. Clearly my tempo algorithm was just completely wrong because 129 does not look like correct. Absolutely not. But what we can now do is we can adjust this temperature or this temperature we can adjust the tempo until it actually does line up. So it seems if we were to put the metronome on here I'm going to turn it up a little bit. that what we need to do is to make it so that this kick is already landing on the downbeat. And then let's listen to where the second kick should be. So let's turn metronome off. 1, 2, 3, 4, 1. So this right here needs to line up with this 10 beat. That's all we need to do to figure this out. So let's adjust the tempo until it does line up. Cool. We've put in 99 now. And there is a little bit of drift. If I do 98, this now pushes everything else back. But 99 seems to be pretty much on the beat. If we start moving forward, you can see that there is a little bit of drift, and that's what we're going to fix next. But the goal is originally we want to create enough of a sort of a ballpark tempo estimate that we're in the rough range. So if I put on the metronome now... Pretty good. Now, obviously, we all have a lot of I also don't need the drums track because we've got the separated drums but this makes it easier actually just using that one drum track. Now what we need to do is to warp this to be in time and we're going to do a similar approach of just using the drums track but what we need to first do is select these all so shift like click the bottom one shift click and then we're going to turn on warp and now if I were to highlight all of them So shift click and I were to drag what looks like just the warp marker on this drum channel it's going to move all of them for me at the same time. However if I only have drums selected it's only going to move that one so it is crucial that we select all of them. If you're on Ableton 12 maybe on Ableton 11 as well you can do this but if you click on the track shift click all of them and then go down here to link tracks. Now anything that you do what is going on here? to one track will carry over to all of them. But for the sake of just keeping it simple I'm going to do it this way which is just highlight and then click. What has gone on here? Let's see what's happened. Maybe before I added this on does it still work? Something very strange has happened. Okay warp off. Okay there we go we'll go back to here. Warp is off we're at 99 beats per minute. Turn warp on and now I'm going I'm going to highlight the bottom drag up here and I just need to pull not a hundred percent like every single hit onto the grid that would be a little bit excessive but what we do need to do is in rough burst say okay what bar five we should pull that back maybe we'll do it every four so I'm going to go in here we could even zoom out a little bit further just to see okay what a 17 how's that make sure that this motherfucker is on the grid let's go a little further this should probably be on the grid too Come back here. And we can just do them in pretty big chunks. Let's just make sure that at 21... Okay, that's actually gone a little bit too far off the grid. So let's go back to here. Maybe we do an actual need to do it while listening. My dreams, canvas of desire, holding you close ignites of fire. Tonight is the moment for hearts and intertwine. Actually, let's listen around here. This seems to be a one. You get the idea, by doing that we're now able to remove, say, the drums and we're able to change the tempo as well, which is one of the key things. Let's put the drums back in again for a sec, I guess, to listen to that. I could now make this 123 and because of the fact that it's all in time and it's all been warped. We need to obviously go in and adjust these to be, say, Complex Pro. Which is really, really nice because now I can go in and adjust these individual elements to say, okay, well, why don't we take this guy here and we'll just put these in time. We know that, fucking hell, what is going on with my mouse today? There we go. We'll just do bat bat bat bat bat bat. Now I'm able to just separate these parts out and I know that they're in time. I could even go perhaps later on in the track and I could take this bit from here and it's gonna be in time because of how we've moved it. Maybe we even take this tom fill here and we'll move that to there and this is just gonna be a game changer. Although that tom actually doesn't sound right does it? But maybe this one will if we take that. Chuck that there. Oh. And a cut. So, you get the point. What I want you to now do is pause this video, drag in a track, and then implement this set of steps. Which is, of course, as a reminder to find the downbeat, find the one, move the pace of audio so that the one is starting on a beat that's easy to calculate from, So like 9, 17 or even 1. And then with it off of warp we're going to adjust the tempo so that these guys line up. As we've just said by having them off of warp gives you that ability to flexibly adjust the time and then to try and get it on the grid. Once that is done we're then going to turn on warp, highlight them all, turn on warp, and then from that point also you want to make sure that the last clip that you click is the one with the kick drum. is the one with drums. Whichever one makes it easier to actually see things on the grid. You're not going to want to do it like this. So click the last. I can't easily figure out where the downbeats should be with a vocal. But the vocal was in time with the drums. So that's why we always use the drums as the marker for being able to actually set up the timing and the warping. I hope that makes sense. Even if you don't end up using the drums, the drums are there as a guide so that whatever it is that you use can be used. You know, if I were to take this little bit here and move this here now, or I could take this, you know, I know for sure that that's going to be in time because of the fact that we've put it in time with the bloody drums. In this case, things have gone very strange, but you get the idea. "Pink", if I call it "Kick", it automatically goes red. If I make "Hordes", it automatically goes blue. But I have a sense of colour coordination in my projects that just for some reason does wonders for me in just maintaining my organisation. But one other thing is that a lot of these stems will have parts, like this stuff, or maybe even this. Let's take a listen. These things, they're not good. We don't need them in there. So a lot of the time when I'll go in and I'll just remove all of the parts that I don't want, you know, and I'll just make it very clear that I don't need this, this piano stem. I've probably cut everything off of there. And this just gives me an easier big picture view of what I have to work with, which to me helps a lot. And it also just gives me the sensation of the fact that I'm getting rid of everything I don't like up front. Say for example as well, we're listening through to here. This is way too fast. Let's say for example I don't like that bit of vocal. I want to get rid of it. So I want to clean up my imports so that everything I have to work with is something that I'm keen to mess around with. So I want you to pause this video, have a look at your stems that are hopefully in time now, and remove everything from them that isn't absolutely crucial to the completion of this song. So once you've done that I will see you in the next module where
