Okay, I hope that you had great success with playing around with treating your drums to a little bit of TLC. Tender, Love & Care, that is. I've gone ahead and brought in the actual stems from the track that we split just before this in the splitting module, and I've put it in time so we can now listen to it at 1:21. now is actually using some of these more musical elements and the philosophy that goes into how I use these things. Because obviously they're not perfect, so we need to actually figure out how to make these parts actually work. I'm going to mute the drums for now, so we've just got... And I think what might be quite nice is before we get too into chopping up all the musical elements, I'd like to actually use a little bit of this bass. and let's see how this feels. Bearing in mind it may actually interfere with some of our low end here but let's take a listen with the track. Now I do like this maybe I'm actually just going to take these toms that we've got put them in a group called toms and I'm going to add a little bit of EQ just rolling off some of the low end. these AI generated sounds is there tends to be a lot of horrible digital top end. So first and foremost I want to just remove everything in this bass that's offending me. Which there tends to be a lot of horrible 300-ish hertz. We can also roll off a decent amount of the top. And another thing we could do is roll off a little bit of that low end. And we can add that top back in with the AI Toolbox afterwards. Let's see if there's anything else that we can remove. Kind of nice to actually boost that bass there and then maybe remove. Okay, that sounds good enough. One thing that's also kind of nice is to take this base and just to see, okay, well, how much more in time could we get this? I'm just going to do this automatically. I'm going to press Command A to highlight everything and Command Shift U so that I'm not going to do this. not 100% quantizing it to the grid, which probably still would sound good in context. But I actually want to keep a little bit of that timing, so I'm going to press Command + Shift + U so I can bring this up and let's do, say, 29%, maybe a couple of times, just to get it a bit closer to on the grid. We also want to go in here and have a look at all of the sections where it would probably be better to remove it. So if we listen to this, It's just gunk. It's just muck really. And so this is going to interfere with how good the bass feels. Having space in the bass is a great way of being able to actually create groove. So I'm going to go in and I'm going to delete all of these sections where I feel like it would be nicer to not have it overlap. So maybe we'll do this. And some of these are supposed to be kind of plucky. So why don't we make them even pluckier by removing any of these weird tail bits. So just going in there and just manually adjusting these to be slightly more on the grid. Maybe even this one. And some of these as well you can even shorten them a lot to get them... that. And this here does not sound good so let's just cut these bits out and just really trying to add a bit of staccato-ness to this bass so that it actually rings through when we have a short and a long note that they feel different. And we could go through there. For the sake of keeping this really simple, I'm actually just going to duplicate this across and let's see what we've got. The volume needs to probably come down a bit. Why don't we add a little bit of compression? It's asking for about five there. I'm going to put the attack down to zero so we're really just hitting it straight. We're getting rid of all transients. Put release on automatic. Probably be quite nice to have a bit of side chaining. I'm going to use just the standard compression, the compressor, and I'm going to take the kick. One thing I like to do with a side chain is that if we put this little headphone on we can hear what we're using as the side chain signal. The actual click of the kick is very short, but the boom is what makes this last longer. So if we actually say with this on we bring this frequency up, we can actually dictate what the area is that we're listening to to sidechain. For some reason it's not actually showing it to us. But if we bring this up you can see this is taking the whole kick and I'm going to high pass it so that we're just getting that click to come through. I'm going to bring up the gain. a far shorter value, which means we can actually play around with this release a little better. So... We could probably bring the volume down even a little bit more. Cool, so we've got some sort of bass here now. Why don't we find a little musical element? I like this bit. The music part is where it starts to get fun, because although this is one channel, this is other, this is music, we can start to separate these out into some fun pieces. Let's create another clip in here. I know for sure that I want to have this one. That sounds great. Why don't we try and take a couple of other little pieces on another layer? And we can do the same thing that we've been doing with the bass, just really getting everything to be on the grid so we don't get any of those like weird like spectral parts. This is cool. Maybe we'll make this actually double so it goes I did like it as it was. Maybe one of these. Just chopping these up, making some little spaces. Let's now make another spot here and we'll do this bit and I'm going to put this backwards. And this is where it just, I start to have so much fun while creating these things because it's like, okay, well, what would this do? What would it be like if we put a bit of reverb on that part? Why don't we also actually duplicate the length of this clip so now we're making some variation. Let's make another clip here and we'll put something in like... Maybe we could put this like there. that one. Very nice. Now we've got this piano layer here. What is this? I don't know. Let's chuck it in here as well and we're going to see what happens if we maybe put this bit here. Maybe we could even move this a little bit later there and then we'll do a double. Maybe this could actually lead into that instead. Maybe this should go at the end. there. Really, there's no logic to what I'm doing. Very nice. And then we've got the... I don't know what this... It says it's a guitar, but I doubt that this is actually a guitar. Why don't we take this? I'm going to reverse this one so that now we have some sort of funny little pluck sound, maybe. This could be cool to have as one of those repeating pieces. Put a bit of delay. Maybe we'll put a filter on this. This one might sound nice to have a bit of reverb on as well. Very nice. So why don't we make some sort of like pad sound now. Are there any parts in the vocal? Maybe we could take just this little piece here and I'm going to use that as some kind of pad sound. So I'm going to copy this in. If I were to just duplicate it a bunch of times, this is probably going It sounds cool, but if I actually just duplicate it and then reverse the second one, now we have a seamless loop. And it's still not going to sound, you know, pad-like necessarily yet, but we could take that vocal thing and we've got a really nice basis. I'm going to take now an EQ, roll off any of the unnecessaries of this. a little reverb to it. Maybe we'll add a delay. Bit of ping pong. Maybe we'll add an auto pan before the delay. Bit of high pass. Maybe we'll also add a filter with a little a little bit of LFO so that it's moving. Very nice. We also do have some of these little drum layers that could be fun to bring in. We had that snare clap. Let's see what happens if we bring in the OG. This I'm going to hard quantize. a couple of these guys like this. And we can have a little snare fill. And then we did have the bass here. We could take a couple of little clips of this and replace just bulk sections. So what if we did this as the end piece of the bass line? Do a little bit of that was kind of cool actually, taking a little snippet of this bass, one of these like higher notes, maybe put that on the downbeat. And also the bass is really great to make subtle variations in rhythm. I know we're working in such a tiny little window here, let's make a bit more space for ourselves. Having it happen on the one, very cool, but what if we were to adjust the position of that bass actually goes... So maybe on the first one we keep it that way, but then when you actually get to number three, maybe the bass now starts like there. So we go, let's listen to it in context. Maybe we do like a double one here. Let's listen again. Let's duplicate that out so we can copy and paste this pattern across. Very nice and you can see how just these small adjustments go a long way in helping to just tighten things up make them feel a bit vibier maybe we'll even get rid of these kicks here get rid of the claps. and let's just see what happens. Very nice. We also have then the kick layer here. What about these hats? Maybe we can bring some of these guys in. Just going to bring these up a lot in volume so we can actually see what we're working with. We'll hard quantize these guys. Obviously we've got that digital problem. So we're gonna put the old AI toolbox on it, do a little bit of noise, shave off some of the... Do a bit of redux, a bit of post filtering to bring that top end up. And actually this is a pretty important part as well. Do you see how this clip very clearly on one side has a different signal to this one? This is where this L gain and R gain comes in handy, which It effectively allows you to take what is a stereo signal and pick, making it mono whether you want the left or the right. So the way that you do that is if we put it on mono here, if I were to loop this, now we're only hearing this top side as if it's mono. If I swap this to our gain now we're only going to hear the right side. This is more apparent in like musical elements where we've got say a guitar on one side and then some strings on the other is a great way to separate that out. then if we were to get rid of all of this crap. Let's freeze and flatten and you're going to see that it's now just one piece of audio which is a lot easier to deal with. I'm going to make it nice and short. Take that there. We've got another little hat pattern here. Let's listen in context. Very nice. Why don't we try bringing in some of the vocal now and let's see what this feels like. So prime example again of when just taking little snippets so we got I'm going to take this piece here and I'm just going to repeat there. I also like this intro bit here. I think that this was cool. Maybe let's just mute all of the rest of this for now and we're going to have... Maybe we'll make this happen there instead. What are these bits? So this bit would be very cool to have on its own layer. I'm going to hard quantize these things and let's just see what this feels like. This is kind of a nice thing to put a filter on, a bit of reverb, a bit of delay. So again we can just delete things that aren't 100% working for us. Let's take this whole piano loop that we've already got. And I know that we've already chopped this up but I've just pitched it up an octave and I'm gonna just This bit doesn't work, so let's just go... And actually, I like just this piece, to be honest. So let's put that so it just happens on the second part. I'm really just like filling in the blank here, you know? I'm using negative space to explore the places where things could go to make them feel cool. What about this tom layer? What would this feel like if we had this in? This would be cool to have at the end, I'm assuming. Very nice. Okay, let's go in and have a look at some of these elements. maybe this base for example what can we further do to make this feel cool well another cousin or a a should we say a big brother of snapback is a plug-in i use all the time which again you can do all of these things without it but it makes it a hell of a lot easier and that is called shaper box shaper box is basically just like a bunch of effects uh so like you know i only really tend to use volume filter noise etc but it basically allows you to change things over time so in In this case I could fade, I could bring all of the volume out and I could make it so that we only have like a little burst of the bass coming through. You know? And of course we could do this automatically or we could do this manually in Ableton but what this tends to do that I find really nice is it allows me to add vibe to it in specific places. So for example let's take this ShaperBox and I'm actually going to put this maybe before the glue compressor and I want to just add a little bit of boost and like a little bit of drive to specific areas and this is happening every time let's shorten this a bit I could add a compressor with like a bit of I'm also going to add a side chain on here rather than the side chain we've got there because this gives me a little bit more control. I'm going to do a bit of mix. Bring the volume down a bit. What is this guitar layer out of intra? I mean, this actually, interestingly, if we were to take this and bring this up, if we were to hard quantize this and maybe shorten it a bit, this is a nice little percussion thing. And moving this into the right position, whatever the right means, this could actually be a nice little thing to do. to fit in maybe here. Pitch-wise it needs to change. Sounds kind of nice, maybe we could copy this paste a few more times. Could also put a filter on this and find the sweet spot. Oh that's very nice. And a bit of resin. So the resonance there really helps you find that sweet spot. I'm gonna add a bit of saturation as well just to drive there. Very nice let's add a bit of reverb after that a small size reverb short decay. Cool inside of the musical element now let's just take this I'm gonna take the whole group and I'm gonna put the EQ8 on it because I'm sure we've got some unnecessary frequencies that need to be tamed. Let's roll those off. Let's find what areas could be boosted for a little bit of niceness. Let's take our AI toolbox and just add a little bit of noise. Find the right sweet spot, tiny bit of bit reduction. I'm just trying to find the right place that I can add a bit of top end to it to help it cut through the mix a little bit better. This is a funny musical element we'll put that in there too and then we have our Vocals probably also got a bit of low end in them that needn't be there. Let's take a listen. Let's put this guy on. Yep, this vocal channel's got a bunch of random... roll off a bunch of that top end as well. Actually add that top end back again. When we find the bits that we like, we could then take another Now that we've removed the actual ugliness, it's very loud. So compare the difference. And kind of nice duplicating a thing and getting rid of like the first half of it. So it goes... Maybe put a filter on that as well. This pad could probably come down a bit as well. Very nice. Okay, I'm digging this. This element could probably come down a little bit more. Let's put this up here with our drums. I might actually just organize this a hair more. So these are hats. Is this the hat or is this the clap? That's the clap, so let's call it as such. This is offbeat hat. These are our hats. This is our funny other hat. We'll call this hats also. This group should be hats. And then we've got our knocky perk, our claps. We've also got this little thing which is I believe a snare. So let's put this in a group and we'll call this snare. And this is our snare fill. And then we've also got this funny tom perk thing that can go into the toms group also. So now let's take a quick listen again to everything that we've got. One final thing I want to do is to put everything So likewise before we can just turn it all off to see what benefit we have given to the sound with our efforts. Let's just turn this guy off also. Yes, and then we've got this. What is this? This is our musical group vocals. Let's put this into a little group as well. And that's that. Okay, so let's compare what we have. This is bearing in mind everything off. Is it? Assuming it is. Yep, everything is off. Let's turn the... are these guys off also? Yes they are. You should be off. You should be off. As should you and you should also. Okay cool. So it is unto me, unto you. This is what it would sound like with zero processing on anything. And for good measure let's actually bring God Particle in just to add a touch of overall just like bus compression to the master. This is what it sounds like with no effects. And in fact let's just for good measure also turn off these guys also just to really get the feel of what this is sounding like. This should also be off. And finally, let's go in here. Do any of these guys have anything on? Yes, they do. You know, this seems like a hassle, but I love to do this while I'm working because it really just gives me a sense of like, okay, well, is what I'm doing actually making sense? Is this making what I'm doing better or is it making it worse? Cool. So, in theory, we are now going to listen to this without any And then once we get to the end, I'm going to turn on our effect. Very excited for this. Here we go. And you can see that we're well within the range of a good mix down. And if we reset this, horrible high frequencies that we've removed. So that is the basics, should we say, of how we go about adjusting the sounds to sound a lot better. We're going to look a little bit more at some advanced settings and other plugins I would recommend a little bit later. But for now what I want to show you is going back to Oodio with what we've got. Because as much as I said we've finished our foray into Oodio, that wasn't quite true. Because we now have some very fun techniques of being able to take what we've now created and create variations of this. So what I'm going to do is just duplicate this out so I have a 30 second clip and I'm going to loop this and I'm going to export what we've got. I'm gonna bring the hats down a bit. Maybe I'll also mute this vocal pad from happening at the beginning. Maybe we'll also get rid of the clap for the first half and maybe on the hats we'll get rid of these guys. Just to give us a slight bit more of an evolution and maybe we'll also just for good measure get rid of this little thing. Okay nice and now we've got... We should probably also get rid of the vocal so now we've got... Nice, so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna export this out. I'm gonna export just the main. I'm gonna put this onto my desktop and we'll call this "Hey Darling" we're gonna spell it like cool people do. And wow that is insanely fast, surely not. Well done. Well done, Ableton. Let's see, is this right? It is. Okay, cool. So, up to there. I hope that you've been following along. What I want you to do before we move on to the next section of the next module, should we say, of going back to Udio, is I'd love for you to now pause where you are in this course, take an hour or so to just sit down and come up with a 30-second or a 16-bar loop using some of these sounds. Do as much as you can to get everything sounding good. There's no
